INTRODUCTION.

MONEY OF THE PAST AND PRESENT.


The need of a circulating medium of exchange has been acknowledged
since the earliest ages of man. In the primeval days, bartering was the
foundation of commercial intercourse between the various races; but this
gave way in time, as exchanges increased. In the different ages many
commodities have been made to serve as money,—tin was used in ancient
Syracuse and Britain; iron, in Sparta; cattle, in Rome and Germany;
platinum, in Russia; lead, in Burmah; nails, in Scotland; silk, in China;
cubes of pressed tea, in Tartary; salt, in Abyssinia; slaves, amongst
the Anglo Saxons; tobacco, in the earliest settlements of Virginia;
codfish, in New Foundland; bullets and wampum, in Massachusetts;
logwood, in Campeachy; sugar, in the West Indies; and soap, in Mexico.
Money of leather and wood was in circulation in the early days of Rome;
and the natives of Siam, Bengal, and some parts of Africa used the
brilliantly-colored cowry shell to represent value, and some travelers
allege that it is still in use in the remote portions of the last-named
country. But the moneys of all civilized nations have been, for the
greater part, made of gold, silver, copper, and bronze. Shekels of
silver are mentioned in the Bible as having existed in the days of
Abraham, but the metals are believed to have been in bars, from which
proportionate weights were chipped to suit convenience. The necessity
for some convenient medium having an intrinsic value of its own led to
coinage, but the exact date of its introduction is a question history has
not yet determined. It is supposed the Lydians stamped metal to be used
as money twelve hundred years before Christ, but the oldest coins extant
were made 800 B. C., though it is alleged that the Chinese circulated a
square bronze coin as early as 1120 B. C. All of these coins were rude
and shapeless, and generally engraved with representations of animals,
deities, nymphs, and the like; but the Greeks issued coins, about 300
B. C., which were fine specimens of workmanship, and which are not even
surpassed in boldness and beauty of design by the products of the coiners
of these modern times. Even while these coins were in circulation spits
and skewers were accepted by the Greeks in exchange for products, just
as wooden and metal coins were circulated simultaneously in Rome, 700
B. C., and leather and metal coins in France, as late as 1360 A. D. The
earliest coins bearing portraits are believed to have been issued about
480 B. C., and these were profiles. In the third century, coins stamped
with Gothic front faces were issued, and after that date a profusion of
coins were brought into the world, as every self-governing city issued
money of its own. The earliest money of America was coined of brass, in
1612, and the earliest colonial coins were stamped in Massachusetts,
forty years later.

Ancient and extensive as the use of money has been in all its numerous
forms and varied materials, it merely represented a property value which
had been created by manual labor and preserved by the organic action of
society. In a primitive state, herds of cattle and crops of grain were
almost the only forms of wealth; the natural tendency and disposition of
men to accumulate riches led them to fix a special value upon the metals,
as a durable and always available kind of property. When their value in
this way was generally recognized, the taxes and other revenues, created
by kings and other potentates, was collected in part or wholly in that
form of money. The government, to facilitate public business, stamped
the various pieces of metal with their weight and quality, as they were
received at the Treasury; and according to these stamps and marks, the
same pieces were paid out of the Treasury, and circulated among the
people at an authorized and fixed value. The next step was to reduce
current prices of metal to a uniform size, shape, and quality, value and
denomination, and make them, by special enactment, a legal tender for the
payment of all taxes or public dues.

Thus, a legalized currency of coined money was created, and the
exchangeable value of the various metals used for that purpose fully
established, to the great convenience of the world at large.


ANCIENT COINING.

The die for the obverse of the piece to be struck having been engraved,
so as to properly present the religious or national symbol used for a
device and whatever else was to be impressed upon the coin, was fixed
immovably in an anvil or pedestal, face upwards. The lumps or balls
of metal to be coined, having been made of a fixed and uniform weight
and nearly of an oblate sphere in form, were grasped in a peculiarly
constructed pair of tongs and laid upon the upturned die. A second
operative then placed a punch squarely upon the ball of metal; heavy
blows from a large hammer forced the punch down until the metal beneath
it had been forced into every part of the die, and a good impress
secured. In the meantime the punch would be imbedded in the lump of
metal, and on being withdrawn the reverse of the coin would show a rough
depression corresponding to the shape given the end of the punch, thereby
making an uneven surface and disfiguring the piece; punch marks gradually
developed into forms, and these forms combined with figures wrought into
artistic design, until, by degrees, the punch itself became a die, making
the reverse of each piece upon which it was used equal in every respect
to the obverse of which it was the opposite. This perfection of the
reverse was, however, secured at the expense of the effectiveness of the
punch for its original purpose.

The striking of coin between two dies, which were required to accurately
oppose each other, was an operation requiring great dexterity, and the
results were not at all certain. The artisans at this stage of the
work, hit upon the expedient of using both the obverse and reverse die
in a ring of such a size and depth, as to be a guide to each of them.
The balls or disks of metal being struck inside the ring, between the
dies, were forced to assume an even thickness, and a circular form
corresponding with the inside of the ring. After the ring had been used
in this way for some time, it was engraved upon the inside, and the
coins produced were not only circular in shape, but stamped upon their
edges. Thus was produced the perfect coin, and through the introduction
of machinery has secured uniformity in the result and saved an immense
amount of labor in striking vast sums of money; the artistic beauty of
some of the antique specimens has not been surpassed in modern times.


PORTRAITURE UPON COINS.

It is said that no human head was ever stamped upon coins until after
the death of Alexander the Great; he being regarded as somewhat of a
divinity, his effigy was impressed upon money, like that of other gods.

The knowledge of coins and medals, through the inscriptions and devices
thereon, is, to an extent, a history of the world from that date in which
metals were applied to such uses. Events engraven upon these, remain
hidden in tombs or buried in the bosom of the earth, deposited there in
ages long past, by careful and miserly hands, only awaiting the research
of the patient investigator to tell the story of their origin. Numismatic
treasures are scanned as evidence of facts to substantiate statements
upon papyrus or stone, and dates are often supplied to define the border
line between asserted tradition and positive history. Gibbon remarks: “If
there were no other record of Hadrian, his career would be found written
upon the coins of his reign.”

The rudeness or perfection of coins and medals furnish testimony of the
character and culture of the periods of their production. This is equally
true of that rarest specimen of antiquity, the Syracusan silver medal—the
oldest known to collectors—and the latest triumph of the graver’s art in
gold, the Metis medal.

It is not generally known that the rarest portraits of famous heroes
are found upon coins and medals. The historian, especially the historic
artist, is indebted to this source alone for the portraits of Alexander,
Ptolemy, Cleopatra, Mark Antony, Cæsar, and many other celebrities.
Perhaps the valuation of a rare coin or medal may be estimated by
reference to one piece in the Philadelphia Mint. It is an Egyptian coin
as large as a half-eagle, and has on the obverse the head of the wife of
Ptolemy—Arsinoe—the only portrait of her yet discovered.


INCIDENTS OF HISTORY

Are not alone recorded; and as an example of a very different nature
may be cited the medals commemorating the destruction of Jerusalem, and
the whole series marking that episode, especially those classed “Judæa
capta.” They tell sadly of a people’s humiliation: the tied or chained
captive; the mocking goddess of victory, all made more real by reason
of the introduction, on the reverse of each piece, of a Jewess weeping
bitterly, and though she sits under a palm-tree, the national lament of
another captivity is forcibly recalled.

An interesting specimen of the series above mentioned was recently found
in the south of France called, “Judæa Navillas,” valuable particularly
because it strengthens Josephus’s assertion which had provoked some
comment, viz.: the fact of the escape of a large number of Jews from the
Romans, by means of ships, at Joppa.

Coins and medals mark the introduction of laws; for example, an old
Porcian coin gives the date of the “law of appeal,” under which, two
centuries and a half later, Paul appealed to Cæsar. Another relic dates
the introduction of the ballot-box; and a fact interesting to the
agriculturist is established by an old silver coin of Ptolemy, upon which
a man is represented cutting millet (a variety of Indian corn) with a
scythe. Religions have been promulgated by coins. Islamism says upon a
gold coin, “No God but God. Mohammed is the Prophet and God’s chosen
apostle.”

Persian coins, in mystic characters, symbolize the dreadful sacrifices
of the Fire-Worshippers. Henry VIII, with characteristic egotism, upon
a medal announces in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin: “Henry Eighth, King of
England, France, and Ireland; Defender of the Faith, and in the land of
England and Ireland, under Christ, the Supreme Head of the Church.”


COSTUMES ON COINS.

We also find stamped upon coins and medals the costumes of all ages, from
the golden net confining the soft tresses of the “sorceress of the Nile,”
and the gemmed robe of Queen Irene, to the broidered stomacher of Queen
Anne, and the stately ruff of Elizabeth of England.

In this connection may be mentioned the “bonnet piece” of Scotland,
a coin of the reign of James VI., which is extremely rare, one of
them having been sold for £41. The coin received its name from a
representation of the king upon it, with a curiously plaited hat or
bonnet which this monarch wore, a fashion that gave occasion for the
ballad, “Blue Bonnets over the Border.”


HERALDIC EMBLEMS

Are faithfully preserved through this medium; in truth, medalic honors
may be claimed as the very foundation of heraldic art. We discover
medals perpetuating revolutions, sieges, plots, and murders, etc. We
prefer directing attention to the fact that coins and medals are not
only the land-marks of history, but a favorite medium of the poetry of
all nations. Epics are thus preserved by the graver’s art in exceedingly
small space. Poets turn with confidence to old coins for symbol as well
as fact.

One of the most graceful historical allusions is conveyed in the great
seal of Queen Anne, after the union of Scotland with England. A rose
and a thistle are growing on one stem, while, from above, the crown of
England sheds effulgence upon the tender young plant.


HUMOR PICTURED ON MEDALS.

The medal of George I., on the reverse, boastfully presents “the horse
of Brunswick” flying over the northwest of Europe, symbolizing the
Hanoverian succession. The overthrow of the “Invincible Armada” was the
occasion of a Dutch medal, showing the Hollanders richer in faith than
in art culture, for the obverse of this medal presents the church upon
a rock, in mid-ocean, while the reverse suggests the thought that the
luckless Spanish mariner was driving against the walls of the actual
building.


ARCHITECTURE INDEBTED TO COINS.

Architecture is largely indebted to coins, medals, and seals for accuracy
and data. We learn from the medal of Septimus Severus the faultless
beauty of the triumphal arch erected to celebrate his victory over
Arabs and Parthians. This medal was produced two centuries before the
Christian era, and is a marvel of art, for its perspective is wrought
in bas-relief—an achievement which was not again attained before the
execution of the celebrated Bronze Gates by Ghiberti, for the Baptistery
at Florence, A. D. 1425. This exhumed arch was excavated long after its
form and structure were familiar to men of letters through the medals.


LANGUAGE UPON COINS AND MEDALS.

The effect of coin on language is direct, and many words may be found
whose origin was a coin, such as Daric, a pure gold coin; Talent,
mental ability; Sterling, genuine, pure; while Guinea represents the
aristocratic element, and, though out of circulation long ago, “no one
who pretends to gentility in England would think of subscribing to any
charity or fashionable object by contributing the vulgar _pound_. An
extra shilling added to the _pound_ makes the _guinea_, and lifts the
subscriber at once into the aristocratic world.”

Copper is much preferred to gold for medals. Its firm, unchanging surface
accepts and retains finer lines than have yet been produced upon gold and
silver, and it offers no temptation to be thrown into the crucible.[1]

In the preparation of this work, I am much indebted to several gentlemen
connected with the United States Mint; also, to Messrs. R. Coulton Davis,
Ph.G., and E. Locke Mason, who are acknowledged authority on the subject
of numismatics.

If it shall be found useful to the public, and especially to visitors of
the Mint, it will be a source of satisfaction, and more than repay the
labor bestowed in its preparation.

                                                                  G. G. E.

_Philadelphia, March 1, 1888._




THE UNITED STATES MINT.


The subject of a National Mint for the United States was first introduced
by Robert Morris,[2] the patriot and financier of the revolution; as
head of the Finance Department, Mr. Morris was instructed by Congress
to prepare a report on the foreign coins, then in circulation in the
United States. On the 15th of January, 1782, he laid before Congress an
exposition of the whole subject. Accompanying this report was a plan for
American coinage. But it was mainly through his efforts, in connection
with Thomas Jefferson and Alexander Hamilton, that a mint was established
in the early history of the Union of the States. On the 15th of April,
1790, Congress instructed the Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander
Hamilton, to prepare and report a proper plan for the establishment of a
National Mint, and Mr. Hamilton presented his report at the next session.
An act was framed establishing the mint, which finally passed both Houses
and received President Washington’s approval April 2, 1792.[3]


NOTES ON THE EARLY HISTORY OF THE MINT.

FROM ROBERT MORRIS’S DIARY.

    1781. July 16th. Wrote to Mr. Dudley at Boston inviting him
    hither in consequence of the Continental Agent Mr. Bradford’s
    Letter respecting him referred to me by Congress.

    July 17th. Wrote Mr. Bradford respecting Mr. Dudley.

    Nov. 10th. Ordered some money on application of Mr. Dudley to
    pay his expences.

    Nov. 12th. Sent for Mr Dudley to consult him respecting the
    quantity of Alloy Silver will bear without being discoloured,
    he says he can put 6 drops into an ounce. Desired him to assay
    some Spanish Dollars and French Crowns, in order to know the
    quantity of pure Silver in each.

    Nov. 16th. Mr. Dudley assayed a number of Crowns and dollars
    for our information respecting the Mint.

    1782. Jan. 2d. Mr. Benjamin Dudley applied for money to pay
    his Board which I directed to be paid by Mr. Swanwick, this
    gentleman is detained at the public expence as a person
    absolutely necessary in the Mint, which I hope soon to see
    established. My propositions on that subject are to be
    submitted to Congress so soon as I can get the proper assays
    made on Silver coins &c.

    Jan. 7th. Mr. Dudley applies about getting his wife from
    England. I promised him every assistance in my power.[4]

    Jan. 18th. I went to Mr. Gouvr. Morris’s Lodging to examine the
    plan we had agreed on, and which we had drawn up respecting
    the Establishment of a Mint, we made some alterations and
    amendments to my satisfaction and from a belief that this is a
    necessary and salutary measure. I have ordered it copied to be
    sent into Congress.

    Jan. 26th. Mr. Dudley applied for money to pay his Lodgings
    &c. I ordered Mr. Swanwick to supply him with fifty dollars,
    informed him that the Plan of a Mint is before Congress, and
    when passed, that he shall be directly employed, if not agreed
    to by Congress, I shall compensate him for his time &c.

    Feb. 26th. Mr. Benjamin Dudley brought me the rough drafts or
    plan for the rooms of a Mint &c. I desired him to go to Mr.
    Whitehead Humphreys to consult him about Screws, Smithwork
    &c. that will be wanted for the Mint, and to bring me a list
    thereof with an estimate of the Cost.

    Feb 28th. Mr. Dudley informs me that a Mr. Wheeler, a Smith in
    the Country, can make the Screws, Rollers &c. for the Mint. Mr.
    Dudley proposes the Dutch Church, that which is now unoccupied,
    as a place suitable for the Mint, I sent him to view it, & he
    returns satisfied that it will answer, wherefore I must enquire
    about it.

    March 22d. Mr. Dudley and Mr. Wheeler came and brought with
    them some Models of the Screws and Rollers necessary for the
    Mint. I found Mr. Wheeler entertained some doubts respecting
    one of these Machines which Mr. Dudley insists will answer
    the purposes and says he will be responsible for it. I agreed
    with Mr. Wheeler that he should perform the work; and, as
    neither he or I could judge of the value that ought to be paid
    for it, he is to perform the same agreeable to Mr. Dudley’s
    directions, and when finished, we are to have it valued by some
    Honest Man, judges of such work, he mentioned Philip Syng,
    Edwd. Duffield, William Rush and —— all of whom I believe are
    good judges and very honest men, therefore I readily agreed
    to this proposition. And I desired Mr. Dudley to consult Mr.
    Rittenhouse and Francis Hopkinson Esquire, as to the Machine or
    Wheel in dispute, and let me have their opinion.

    March 23d. Mr. Dudley called to inform me that Mr. Rittenhouse
    & Mr. Hopkinson agree to his plan of the Machine &c.

    April 12th. Mr. Dudley wants a horse to go up to Mr. Wheelers
    &c.

    May 20th. Mr. Dudley wrote me a Letter this day and wanted
    money. I directed Mr. Swanwick to supply him, and then disired
    him to view the Mason’s Lodge to see if it would Answer for a
    Mint, which he thinks it will, I desired him to go up to Mr.
    Wheelers to see how he goes on with the Rollers &c.

    June 17th. Mr. Dudley applied for money to pay his Bill. I
    directed Mr. Swanwick to supply him.

    June 18th. Issued a warrant in favor of B. Dudley £7.11.6.

    July 15th. Mr. B. Dudley applied for money, he is very uneasy
    for want of employment, and the Mint in which he is to be
    employed and for which I have engaged him, goes on so slowly
    that I am also uneasy at having this gentleman on pay and
    no work for him. He offered to go and assist Mr. Byers to
    establish the Brass Cannon Foundry at Springfield. I advised to
    make that proposal to Genl. Lincoln and inform me the result
    to-morrow.[5]

    July 16th. Mr. B. Dudley to whom I gave an order on Mr.
    Swanwick for fifty dollars, and desired him to seek after Mr.
    Wheeler to know whether the Rollers &c. are ready for him to go
    to work on rolling the copper for the Mint.

    August 22d. Mr. Saml. Wheeler who made the Rollers for the
    Mint, applies for money. I had a good deal of conversation with
    this ingenious gentleman.

    August 26th. Mr. Dudley called and pressed very much to be set
    at work.

    Sept 3d. Mr. B. Dudley applied for a passage for his Friend Mr.
    Sprague, pr. the Washington to France & for Mrs. Dudley back.
    Mr. Wheeler applied for money which I promised in a short time.

    Sept. 4th. Mr. Wheeler for money. I desired him to leave his
    claim with Mr. McCall Secretary in this office, and I will
    enable the discharge of his notes in the Bank when due.

    Novr. 8th. Mr. Dudley applies for the amount of his Bill for
    Lodgings and Diet &c. and I directed Mr. Swanwick to pay him,
    but am very uneasy that the Mint is not going on.

    Dec. 23d. Mr. Dudley and Mr. Wilcox brought the subsistance
    paper, and I desired Mr. Dudley to deliver 4000 sheets to Hall
    and Sellers.[6]

    Decr. 26th. Mr. Hall the printer brought 100 Sheets of the
    subsistence notes this day, and desired that more paper might
    be sent to his Printing Office, accordingly I sent for Mr.
    Dudley and desired him to deliver the same from time to time,
    until the whole shall amount to 4000 Sheets.

    1783. April 2d. I sent for Mr. Dudley who delivered me a piece
    of Silver Coin, being the first that has been struck as an
    American Coin.

    April 16th. Sent for Mr. Dudley and urged him to produce the
    Coins to lay before Congress to establish a Mint.

    April 17th. Sent for Mr. Dudley to urge the preparing of Coins
    &c. for Establishing a Mint.

    April 22d. Mr. Dudley sent in several Pieces of Money as
    patterns of the intended American Coins.

    May 6th. Sent for Mr. Dudley and desired him to go down to Mr.
    Mark Wilcox’s, to see 15,000 Sheets of paper made fit to print
    my Notes on.

    May 7th. This day delivered Mr. Dudley the paper Mold for
    making paper, mark’d United States, and dispatched him to Mr.
    Wilcok’s, but was obliged to advance him 20 dollars.

    May 27th. I sent for Mr. Dudley to know if he has compleated
    the paper at Mr. Wilcock’s paper mill for the Certificates
    intended for the pay of the Army. He says it is made, but not
    yet sufficiently dry for the printers use. I desired him to
    repair down to the Mill and bring it up as soon as possible.

    May 28th. Mr. Whitehead Humphreys to offer his lot and
    buildings for erecting a Mint.

    July 5th. Mr. Benjn. Dudley gave notice that he has received
    back from Messrs. Hall and Sellers the Printers, three thousand
    sheets of the last paper made by Mr. Wilcocks. I desired him
    to bring it to this office. He also informs of a Minting Press
    being in New York for sale, and urges me to purchase it for the
    use of the American Mint.

    July 7th. Mr. Dudley respecting the Minting Press, but I had
    not time to see him.

    August 19th. I sent for Mr. Benjamin Dudley, and informed him
    of my doubts about the establishment of a Mint, and desired him
    to think of some employment in private service, in which I am
    willing to assist him all in my power. I told him to make out
    an account for the services he had performed for the public,
    and submit at the Treasury office for inspection and settlement.

    August 30th. Mr. Dudley brought the dies for Coining in the
    American Mint.

    Sept. 3d. Mr. Dudley applies for money for his expenses which I
    agree to supply, but urge his going into private business.

    Sept. 4th. Mr. Dudley for money, which is granted. Directed him
    to make three models for constructing Dry——

    Nov. 21st. Mr. Dudley applies for money. He says he was at half
    a guinea a week and his expenses borne when he left Boston to
    come about the Mint, and he thinks the public ought to make
    that good to him. I desired him to write me and I will state
    his claims to Congress.

    Nov. 26th. Mr. Dudley for money, which was granted.

    Dec. 17th. Mr. Dudley with his account for final settlement. I
    referred him to Mr. Milligan.

    1784. Jan. 5th. Mr. Dudley applies for a Certificate of the
    Time which he was detained in the public service. I granted him
    one accordingly.

    Jan. 7th. Mr. Dudley after the settlement of his account, which
    I compleated by signing a warrant.

[Illustration: [Fac simile of original, photo-engraved by Levytype
Company.]

                      Congress of the United States:

                          AT THE THIRD SESSION,

              Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on
                Monday the sixth of December, one thousand
                        seven hundred and ninety.

_RESOLVED by the SENATE and HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the United States
of America in Congress assembled_, That a mint shall be established under
such regulations as shall be directed by law.

_Resolved_, That the President of the United States be, and he is hereby
authorized to cause to be engaged, such principal artists as shall
be necessary to carry the preceeding resolution into effect, and to
stipulate the terms and conditions of their service, and also to cause to
be procured such apparatus as shall be requisite for the same purpose.

                      FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
                      _Speaker of the House of Representatives_.

                      JOHN ADAMS, _Vice-President of the United States,
                      and President of the Senate_.

APPROVED, March the third, 1791.

                      GEORGE WASHINGTON, _President of the United States_.

DEPOSITED among the ROLLS in the OFFICE of the SECRETARY of STATE.

                      _Th. Jefferson Secretary of State._]


_The following is a copy of an old pay roll, framed and hanging upon the
wall of the Cabinet._

NAMES AND SALARIES OF THE OFFICERS, CLERKS, AND WORKMEN EMPLOYED AT THE
MINT THE 10TH OCTOBER, 1795.

  Henry Wm. DeSaussure, Director                 @ 2,000 Drs. per Ann.
  Nicholas Way, Treasurer                          1,200  ”      ”
  Henry Voigt, Chief Coiner                        1,500  ”      ”
  Albion Cox, Assayer                              1,500  ”      ”
  Robert Scott, Engraver                           1,200  ”      ”
  David Ott, Melter and Refiner pro tem.           1,200  ”      ”
  Nathaniel Thomas, Clerk to the Treasurer           700  ”      ”
  Isaac Hough, ditto to Director and Assayer         500  ”      ”
  Lodewyk Sharp, ditto to Chief Coiner               500  ”      ”
  John S. Gardiner, Assistant Engraver               936  ”      ”
  Adam Eckfeldt, Die Forger and Turner               500  ”      ”

  _Workmen Employed in Chief Coiner’s Department._

                                   Wages per day.     Doll. Cts.
  John Schreiner, Chief Pressman                        1    80
  John Cope, Chief Adjuster                             1    60
  William Hayley, Roller                                1    40
  Nicholas Sinderling, Annealer                         1    40
  John Ward, Miller                                     1    20
  Joseph Germon, Drawer                                 1    20
  Lewis Laurenger, Brusher                              1    20
  Henry Voigt, Junr, Adjuster                                88
  Sarah Waldrake, ditto                                      50
  Rachael Summers, ditto                                     50
  Lewis Bitting, ditto                                  1    20
  Lawrence Ford, ditto                                  1    20
  Christopher Baum, Pressman                            1
  John Keyser, ditto                                    1
  Frederick Bauck, ditto                                1
  Barney Miers, Cleaner                                 1
  Martin Summers, Doorkeeper                            1
  Adam Seyfert, Hostler                                 1
  John Bay, Boy.                                             66

  _Workmen Employed at the Furnace of the Mint._

  Peter LaChase, Melter                                 1    60
  George Myers, ditto                                   1    50
  Eberhart Klumback, ditto                              1    40
  Patrick Ryan, Filer                                   1    25
  Valentine Flegler, Labourer                           1    25
  Andrew Brunet, ditto                                  1
  William Ryan, ditto                                   1

Endorsed in two places, “Names and Salaries of the Officers, Clerks and
Workmen employed in the Mint the 10th Oct. 1795.”




THE PHILADELPHIA MINT.


[Illustration: THE FIRST MINT IN THE UNITED STATES, ERECTED IN 1792.]

The popular estimation in which the Mint is held in the United States,
is, for obvious reasons, more distinctively marked than that entertained
for other public institutions. Its position, in a financial point
of view, is so important, its use so apparent, and its integrity of
management so generally conceded, that it enjoys a pre-eminence and
dignity beyond that accorded to general governmental departments. Party
mutations usually effect changes in its directorship, with but slight
interference, however, with the other officials, as those of attainments,
skill, and long experience in the professional branches, required to
intelligently perform the various duties assigned, are few in all
countries. Those occupying positions are chosen for their proficiency in
the various departments, their characters being always above question.
The confidence reposed in the officials of the United States Mint has
never been violated, as, for nearly a century of its operations, no
shadow of suspicion has marred the fair name of any identified with its
history.

The need of a mint in the Colonies was keenly felt to be a serious
grievance against England for years before the Revolution, and as soon as
practicable after the establishment of Independence, the _United States
Mint_ was authorized by an Act of Congress—April 2, 1792.

A lot of ground was purchased on Seventh Street near Arch, and
appropriations were made for erecting the requisite buildings. An old
still-house, which stood on the lot, had first to be removed. In an
account book of that time we find an entry on the 31st of July, 1792, of
the sale of some old materials of the still-house for seven shillings and
sixpence, which “Mr. Rittenhouse directed _should be laid out for punch_
in laying the foundation stone.”[7]

The first building erected in the United States for public use, under
the authority of the Federal Government, was a structure for the United
States Mint. This was a plain brick edifice, on the east side of
Seventh street, near Arch, the corner-stone of which was laid by David
Rittenhouse, Director of the Mint, on July 31, 1792. In the following
October operations of coining commenced. It was occupied for about forty
years. On the 19th of May, 1829, an Act was passed by Congress locating
the United States Mint on its present site.

The first coinage of the United States, was silver half-dimes in October,
1792, of which Washington makes mention in his address to Congress, on
November 6, 1792, as follows; “There has been a small beginning in the
coinage of half-dimes; the want of small coins in circulation, calling
the first attention to them.” The first metal purchased for coinage was
six pounds of old copper at one shilling and three pence per pound, which
was coined and delivered to the Treasurer, in 1793. The first deposit
of silver bullion was made on July 18, 1794, by the Bank of Maryland.
It consisted of “coins of France,” amounting to $80,715.73½. The first
returns of silver coins to the Treasurer, was made on October 15, 1794.
The first deposit of gold bullion for coinage, was made by Moses Brown,
merchant, of Boston, on February 12, 1795; it was of gold ingots, worth
$2,276.72, which was paid for in silver coins.

The first return of gold coinage, was on July 31, 1795, and consisted of
744 half eagles. The first delivery of eagles was in September 22, same
year, and consisted of four hundred pieces.

Previous to the coinage of silver dollars, at the Philadelphia Mint, in
1794, the following amusing incidents occurred in Congress, while the
emblems and devices proposed for the reverse field of that coin were
being discussed.

A member of the House from the South bitterly opposed the choice of
the eagle, on the ground of its being the “king of birds,” and hence
neither proper nor suitable to represent a nation whose institutions and
interests were wholly inimical to monarchical forms of government. Judge
Thatcher playfully, in reply, suggested that perhaps a goose might suit
the gentleman, as it was a rather humble and republican bird, and would
also be serviceable in other respects, as the goslings would answer to
place upon the dimes. This answer created considerable merriment, and the
irate Southerner, conceiving the humorous rejoinder as an insult, sent
a challenge to the Judge, who promptly declined it. The bearer, rather
astonished, asked, “Will you be branded as a coward?” “Certainly, if he
pleases,” replied Thatcher; “I always was one and he knew it, or he would
never have risked a challenge.” The affair occasioned much mirth, and,
in due time, former existing cordial relations were restored between the
parties; the irritable Southerner concluding there was nothing to be
gained in fighting with one who fired nothing but jokes.


EXTRACT FROM THE RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED FOR THE MINT, JANUARY 1,
1825.

    The operations of the Mint throughout the year, are to commence
    at 5 o’clock in the morning, under the superintendence of
    an officer, and continue until 4 o’clock in the afternoon,
    except on Saturdays, when the business of the day will close
    at 2 o’clock, unless on special occasions it may be otherwise
    directed by an officer. Extra work will be paid for in
    proportion, on a statement being made of it through the proper
    officer, at the end of each month. A strict account is to be
    kept by one of the officers, as they may agree of the absentees
    from duty, if the absence be voluntary, the full wages for the
    time will be deducted, if it arise from sickness a deduction
    will be made at the discretion of the proper officer. A
    statement of these deductions will be rendered at the end of
    the month, and the several accounts made out accordingly.

    The allowance under the name of _drink money_ is hereafter
    to be discontinued, and in place of it _three dollars extra
    wages_ per month will be allowed for the three summer months
    to those workmen who continue in the Mint through that season.
    No workman can be permitted to bring spirituous liquors into
    the Mint. Any workman who shall be found intoxicated within the
    Mint must be reported to the Director, in order that he may be
    discharged. No profane or indecent language can be tolerated
    in the Mint. Smoking within the Mint is inadmissible. The
    practice is of dangerous tendency; experience proves that this
    indulgence in public institutions, ends at last in disaster.
    Visitors may be admitted by permission of an officer, to
    see the various operations of the Mint on all working days
    except Saturdays and rainy days; they are to be attended by an
    officer, or some person designated by him. The new coins must
    not be given in exchange for others to accommodate visitors,
    without the consent of the Chief Coiner. Christmas day and the
    Fourth of July, and no other days, are established holidays at
    the Mint. The pressmen will carefully lock the several coining
    presses when the work for the day is finished, and leave the
    keys in such places as the Chief Coiner shall designate. When
    light is necessary to be carried from one part of the Mint
    to the other, the watchman will use a dark lanthorn but not
    an open candle. He will keep in a proper arm chest securely
    locked, a musket and bayonet, two pistols and a sword. The
    arms are to be kept in perfect order and to be inspected by an
    officer once a month, when the arms are to be discharged and
    charged anew.

    The watchman of the Mint must attend from 6 o’clock in the
    evening to 5 o’clock in the morning, and until relieved by
    the permission of an officer, or until the arrival of the
    door-keeper. He will ring the yard bell precisely every hour
    by the Mint clock, from 10 o’clock until relieved by the
    door-keeper, or an officer, or the workmen on working days,
    and will send the watch dog through the yard immediately after
    ringing the bell. He will particularly examine the departments
    of the engine and all the rooms where fire has been on the
    preceding day, conformably to his secret instructions. For this
    purpose he will have keys of access to such rooms as he cannot
    examine without entering them.

    If an attempt be made on the Mint he will act conformably
    to his secret instructions on that subject. In case of fire
    occurring in or near the Mint, he will ring the Alarm Bell if
    one has been provided, or sound the alarm with his rattle,
    and thus as soon as possible bring some one to him who can be
    dispatched to call an officer, and in other particulars will
    follow his secret instructions. The secret instructions given
    him from time to time he must be careful not to disclose. The
    delicate trust reposed in all persons employed in the Mint,
    presupposes that their character is free from all suspicion,
    but the director feels it his duty nevertheless, in order
    that none may plead ignorance on the subject, to warn them
    of the danger of violating so high a trust. Such a crime as
    the embezzlement of any of the coins struck at the Mint, or
    of any of the metals brought to the Mint for coinage, would
    be punished under the laws of Pennsylvania, by a fine and
    penitentiary imprisonment at hard labor. The punishment annexed
    to this crime by the laws of the United States, enacted for the
    special protection of deposits made at the Mint, is DEATH. The
    19th Section of the Act of Congress, establishing the Mint,
    passed April 12, 1792, is in the following words: Section 19,
    _and_ be it further enacted, That if any of the gold or silver
    coins, which shall be struck or coined at the said Mint, shall
    be debased or made worse as to the proportion of fine gold or
    fine silver, therein contained, or shall be of less weight or
    value than the same ought to be, pursuant to the directions of
    this act, through the default or with the connivance of any of
    the officers or persons who shall be employed at said Mint, for
    the purpose of profit or gain, or otherwise, with a fraudulent
    intent, and if any of the said officers or persons shall
    embezzle any of the metal which shall at any time be committed
    to their charge, for the purpose of being coined, or any of
    the coins which shall be struck or coined at the said Mint,
    every such officer or person who shall commit any or either of
    the said offences, shall be deemed guilty of Felony, and shall
    suffer death. Printed copies of the Rules here recited are to
    be kept in convenient places for the inspection of the workmen,
    but as all may not be capable of reading them, it shall be the
    duty of the proper officer of the several departments, or such
    person as he may appoint, to read them in the hearing of the
    workmen, at least once a year, and especially to read them to
    every person newly employed in the Mint.

                                                       SAMUEL MOORE,
                                                       _Director_.

Up to 1836 the work at the Mint was done entirely by hand or horse power.
In that year steam was introduced. At different periods during the
years 1797, 1798, 1799, 1802, and 1803, the operations of the Mint were
suspended on account of the prevalence of yellow fever.

    “BOND OF INDEMNITY OR AGREEMENT of Operatives to return to the
    service of the Mint.” Dated August, 1799.

    “We, the subscribers, do hereby promise and engage to return
    to the service of the Mint as soon as the same shall be again
    opened, after the prevailing fever is over, on the penalty of
    twenty pounds.”

    “As witness our hands this 31st day of August, 1799.

                                            “GEORGE WATT’N,
                                            JOHN COPE,
                                            LEWIS BITTING,
                                            GEO. BOEMING,
                                            JAMES ANDERSON,
                                            JOHN SCHREINER,
                                            JOHN BIRNBAUM,
                                            GEORGE MYERS,
                                            CHARLES BENJ. K——,
                                            GEORGE BAILY,
                                            JOHN MANN,
                                            (In German) JOHANNES ——,
                                            SAML. THOMPSON,
                                            MARTIN SUMMERS.”

The above are the signatures of the parties agreeing, written on old
hand-made unruled foolscap paper.

This is part of the Mint records, which has been framed for convenience
and protection. It hangs in the Cabinet.


THE MINT ESTABLISHED.

The Mint was established by Act of Congress the second of April, 1792,
and a few half-dimes were issued towards the close of that year. The
general operations of the institution commenced in 1793. The coinage
effected from the commencement of the establishment to the end of the
year 1800 may be stated in round numbers at $2,534,000; the coinage
of the decade ending 1810 amounted to $6,971,000, and within the ten
years ending with 1820—$9,328,000. The amount within the ten years
ending with 1830 is stated at $18,000,000, and the whole coinage from
the commencement of the institution at $37,000,000. On the second of
March, 1829, provisions were made by Congress for extending the Mint
establishment, the supply of bullion for coinage having increased beyond
the capacity of the existing accommodations. The Mint edifice, erected
under this provision, stands on a lot purchased for the object at the
northwest corner of Chestnut and Juniper streets, fronting 150 feet on
Chestnut street and extending 204 feet to Penn Square, (the central
and formerly the largest public square in the city). The corner-stone
of the new edifice was laid on the fourth of July, 1829; the building
is of marble and of the Grecian style of architecture, the roof being
covered with copper. It presents on Chestnut street and Penn Square
a front of 123 feet, each front being ornamented with a portico of
60 feet, containing six Ionic columns. In the centre of the structure
there was formerly a court-yard (now built up) extending 85 by 84 feet,
surrounded by a piazza to each story, affording an easy access to all
parts of the edifice. Present officers of the Mint: Hon. Daniel M. Fox,
Superintendent; William S. Steel, Coiner; Jacob B. Eckfeldt, Assayer;
Patterson Du Bois, Assistant Assayer, James C. Booth, Melter and Refiner;
N. B. Boyd, Assistant Melter and Refiner; Charles E. Barber, Engraver;
George T. Morgan and William H. Key, Assistant Engravers; M. H. Cobb,
Cashier; George W. Brown, Doorkeeper.

On July 4, 1829, Samuel Moore, then Director, laid the corner stone
of the present building, located at the northwest corner of Chestnut
and Juniper streets. It is of white marble, and of the Grecian style
of architecture, and was finished, and commenced operations, in 1833.
Subsequent to that date necessary changes in the interior arrangements,
to accommodate the increase in business, have been introduced at various
times, and it was made more secure as a depository for the great
amount of bullion contained within its vaults, by having been rendered
fire-proof in 1856.


COPY OF THE PAPER LAID IN THE CORNER STONE OF THE MINT, JULY 4, 1829.

This corner stone of the Mint of the United States of America, laid
on the 4th day of July, 1829, being the fifty-third anniversary of
our independence, in the presence of the Officers thereof, Members of
Congress of the adjacent districts, architect, and artificers employed
in the building, and a number of citizens of Philadelphia, in the which
with this instrument are deposited specimens of the Coins of our Country
struck in the present year. The Mint of the United States commenced
operations in the year A. D., 1793, increasing constantly in utility,
until its locality and convenience required extension and enlargement,
which was ordered by the passage of a bill appropriating $120,000 for the
erection of new and convenient buildings, to accommodate its operations,
vesting the disbursement in the judgment and taste of the Director and
President of the United States. In pursuance of the above bill, passed
during the Presidency of John Quincy Adams, arrangements were made and
designs adopted; William Strickland appointed architect; John Struthers,
marble mason; Daniel Groves, bricklayer; Robert O’Neil, master carpenter,
and in the first year of the Presidency of Andrew Jackson, this corner
stone was placed in southeast corner of the edifice.

The names of the officers of the Mint of the United States at this time,
are as follows:

  DOCTOR SAMUEL MOORE, Director,
  ADAM ECKFELDT, Coiner,
  JOSEPH CLOUD, Melter and Refiner,
  JOSEPH RICHARDSON, Assayer,
  DOCTOR JAMES RUSH, Treasurer,
  WM. KNEASS, Engraver,
  GEORGE EHRENZELDER, Clerk.

                                     MINT OF THE UNITED STATES,
                                     _Philadelphia, March 20, 1838_.

    TO HON. LEVI WOODBURY, Secretary of the Treasury.

    Sir:—I had the honor to receive your letter asking my attention
    to a resolution of the House of Representatives of the United
    States, passed March 5, 1838, as follows:

    EXTRACT FROM RESOLUTION OF CONGRESS RELATING TO MINT.

    “_Resolved_, That the Secretary of the Treasury report to this
    House the cost of erecting the principal Mint and its branches,
    including buildings, fixtures, and apparatus; the salaries and
    expenses of the different officers; the amount expended in the
    purchase of bullion; the loss arising from wastage, and all
    other expenses; and the average length of time it requires to
    coin at the principal Mint all the bullion with which it can be
    furnished; and further, what amount of coin has been struck at
    the several branch mints, since their organization.”

    MINT OF THE UNITED STATES, PHILADELPHIA.

  The cost of the edifice, machinery, and fixtures, was     $173,390
  Ground, enclosure, paving, etc.                             35,840
                                                           ---------
      Total cost of buildings, etc.                         $209,230
                                                           =========

    This amount does not include expenditures made under special
    appropriations for the years 1836 and 1837, for milling and
    coining by steam power; and for extensive improvements in
    the assaying, melting, and parting rooms, and machine shops,
    amounting to $28,270.

    It may be proper to mention that the Mint building is on the
    best street in the city, is of large dimensions, with the
    whole exterior of marble, and two Ionic porticos; and that the
    machinery and apparatus are of the best construction. The cost
    must therefore be considered as very moderate. The new Mint
    lately erected by the British India Government at Calcutta,
    cost 24 lacs of rupees, or about $1,138,000.

  The Director receives per annum       $3,500
      Treasurer                          2,000
      Chief Coiner                       2,000
      Assayer                            2,000
      Melter and Refiner                 2,000
      Engraver                           2,000
      Second Engraver                    1,500
      Assistant Assayer                  1,300
      Treasurer’s Clerk                  1,200
      Bookkeeper                         1,000
      Clerk of the weighing room         1,200
      Director’s Clerk                     700
                                       -------
          Total for salaries           $20,400
                                       =======

    No expenses are allowed, beyond the above sums, to any officer,
    assistant, or clerk, for the performance of his duties.

    As all the gold and silver brought to the Mint is purchased at
    the nett Mint price, there is no expense, properly so called,
    incurred on this account.

                                             R. M. PATTERSON,
                                             _Director of the Mint_.

Previous to the passage of the law by the Federal government for
regulating the coins of the United States, much perplexity arose from
the use of no less than four different currencies or rates, at which
one species of coin was recoined, in the different parts of the Union.
Thus, in New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Maine, Rhode Island, Connecticut,
Vermont, Virginia and Kentucky, the dollar was recoined at six shillings;
in New York and North Carolina at eight shillings; in New Jersey,
Pennsylvania and Maryland at seven shillings and six pence; in Georgia
and South Carolina at four shillings and eight pence. The subject had
engaged the attention of the Congress of the old confederation, and the
present system of the coins is formed upon the principles laid down
in their resolution of 1786, by which the denominations of money of
account were required to be dollars (the dollar being the unit), dismes
or tenths, cents or hundredths, and mills or thousandths of a dollar.
Nothing can be more simple or convenient than this decimal subdivision.
The terms are proper because they express the proportions which they are
intended to designate. The dollar was wisely chosen, as it corresponded
with the Spanish coin, with which we had been long familiar.


VISITING THE MINT.

The Mint, on Chestnut street near Broad, is open to the public daily,
excepting Sundays and holidays, from 9 to 12 A. M. Visitors are met by
the courteous ushers, who attend them through the various departments.
It is estimated that over forty thousand persons have visited the
institution in the course of a single year. Owing to the immense amount
of the precious metals which is always in course of transition, and
the watchful care necessary to a correct transaction of business, the
public are necessarily excluded from some of the departments. These,
however, are of but little interest to the many and are described under
their proper heads. The system adopted in the Mint is so precise and the
weighing so accurate, that the abstraction of the smallest particle of
metal would lead to almost immediate detection.

On entering the rotunda, the offices of the Treasurer and Cashier are to
the right and left. Farther in, in the hall, to the rear, on the right,
is the room of the Treasurer’s clerks; a part of this was formerly used
by the Adams Express Company, who transport to and from the Mint millions
of dollars worth of metal, coin, etc.


THE DEPOSIT OR WEIGHING-ROOM.

[Illustration: SCALES.]

On the left is the Deposit or Weighing-room, where all the gold and
silver for coining is received and first weighed. The largest weight used
in this room is five hundred ounces, the smallest, is the thousandth
part of an ounce. The scales are wonderfully delicate, and are examined
and adjusted on alternate days. On the right of this room is one of the
twelve vaults in the building. Of solid masonry, several of them are
iron-lined, with double doors of the same metal and most complicated and
burglar-proof locks.

[Illustration: AUTOMATIC WEIGHING SCALES.]

It is estimated that about fifteen hundred million dollars worth of
gold has been received and weighed in this room; probably nine-tenths
of this amount was from California, since its discovery there in the
year 1848. Previous to that time the supplies of gold came principally
from Virginia, North Carolina, and Georgia. During the past ten years
considerable quantities have been received from Nova Scotia, but most
of the gold that reaches the Mint, at the present time, comes from
California, Montana, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, Oregon, Dakota,
Virginia, South Carolina, and New Mexico.

Formerly the silver used by the Mint came principally from Mexico and
South America, but since the discovery of the immense veins of that metal
in the territories of the United States the supply is furnished from the
great West.

The copper used comes principally from the mines of Lake Superior, the
finest from Minnesota. The nickel is chiefly from Lancaster County, Pa.


THE DEPOSIT MELTING ROOM.

After the metal has been carefully weighed in the presence of the
depositor and the proper officials, it is locked in iron boxes and taken
to the melting room, where it is opened by two men, each provided with
a key to one of the separate locks. There are four furnaces in this
room, and the first process of melting takes place here. The gold and
silver, being mixed with borax and other fluxing material, is placed in
pots, melted and placed in iron moulds, and when cooled is again taken
to the deposit room in bars, where it is reweighed, and a small piece
cut from each lot by the Assayer. From this the fineness of the whole is
ascertained, the value calculated, and the depositor paid. The metal in
its rough state is then transferred to the Melter and Refiner.


OFFICE OF THE MELTER AND REFINER.

Adjoining the Deposit Melting Room are the Melter and Refiner and
assistants. This is the general business office of the head of this
department, and is also used for weighing the necessary quantities of the
metals used in alloying coin.


THE PROCESS OF ASSAY.

The two essential things regarding every piece of metal offered in
payment of any dues were, first, the weight or quantity, next, the
fineness or purity of the same. The process of weighing even the baser
metals used in coining must be conducted by the careful use of accurate
scales, with precise notes of the results. In precious metals, gold,
silver, and their high grade alloys, a very small variation in the
fineness makes a great difference in the value. Nothing is more essential
than the accurate determination of the weight of the sample and of
the metal obtained from it. It requires keen sight and most delicate
adjustment in the hand which manipulates the Lilliputian scales of
an Assayer’s table. The smallest weight used in the Mint is found in
the Assay Room; it is the thirteen-hundredth part of a grain, and can
scarcely be seen with the naked eye, unless on a white ground. The Assay
Department is strictly a technical and scientific branch of the service.
It has been practically under one regime, for the last fifty years. There
have been but three Chief Assayers in that time, the only removals being
by death, the only appointments by promotion. Its workmen are all picked
men, selected from other parts of the Mint for special fitness and good
character.


THE ASSAYING ROOMS.

These are on the second floor, in the southwest corner of the building.
In one of these are fires, stills, and other appliances used in the
delicate and complicated process of assay, by which the specific standard
of the fineness and purity of the various metals are established and
declared.


ASSAYING GOLD.

The gold is melted down and stirred, by which a complete mixture is
effected, so that an assay piece may be taken from any part of the bar
after it is cast. The piece taken for this purpose is rolled out for the
convenience of cutting. It is then taken to an assay balance (sensible
to the ten-thousandth of a half gramme or less), and from it is weighed
a half gramme, which is the normal assay weight for gold, being about
7.7 grains troy. This weight is stamped 1000; and all the lesser weights
(afterwards brought into requisition) are decimal divisions of this
weight, down to one ten-thousandth part.

Silver is next weighed out for the quartation (alloying), and as the
assay piece, if standard, should contain 900-thousandths of gold, there
must be three times this weight, or 2700-thousandths of silver; and this
is the quantity used. The lead used for the cupellation is kept prepared
in thin sheets, cut in square pieces, which should each weigh about ten
times as much as the gold under assay. The lead is now rolled into the
form of a hollow cone; and into this are introduced the assay gold and
the quartation silver, when the lead is closed around them and pressed
into a ball. The furnace having been properly heated, and the cupels
placed in it and brought to the same temperature, the leaden ball, with
its contents, is put into a cupel (a small cup made of burned bones,
capable of absorbing base metals), the furnace closed, and the operation
allowed to proceed, until all agitation is ceased to be observed in the
melted metal, and its surface has become bright. This is an indication
that the whole of the base metals have been converted into oxides, and
absorbed by the cupel.

The cupellation being thus finished, the metal is allowed to cool slowly,
and the disc or button which it forms is taken from the cupel. The button
is then flattened by a hammer; is annealed by bringing it to a red heat;
is laminated by passing it between the rollers; is again annealed; and
is rolled loosely into a spiral or coil called a _cornet_. It is now
ready for the process of quartation. This was formerly effected in a
glass matrass, and that mode is still used occasionally, when there
are few assays. But a great improvement, first introduced into this
country by the Assayer in 1867, was the—“platinum apparatus,” invented
in England. It consists of a platinum vessel in which to boil the nitric
acid, which is to dissolve out the silver, and a small tray containing
a set of platinum thimbles with fine slits in the bottom. In these the
silver is taken out, by successive supplies of nitric acid, without any
decanting as in the case of glass vessels. The cornets are also annealed
in the thimbles; in fact there is no shifting from the coiling to the
final weighing, which determines the fineness of the original sample by
proportionate weights in thousandths. In this process extra care has to
be taken in adding the proportions of silver, as the “shaking” of any one
cornet, might damage the others.


ASSAYING SILVER.

The process of assaying silver differs from that of gold. To obtain the
assay sample, a little of the metals is dipped from the pot and poured
quickly into water, producing a granulation, from portions of which that
needed for assay is taken. In the case of silver alloyed with copper
there is separation, to a greater or less degree, between the two metals
in the act of solidification. Thus an ingot or bar, cooled in a mould,
or any single piece cut from either, though really 900-thousandths fine
on the average, will show such variations, according to the place of
cutting, as might exceed the limits allowed by law. But the sudden chill
produced by throwing the liquid metal into water, yields a granulation of
entirely homogeneous mixture that the same fineness results, whether by
assaying a single granule, or part of one, or a number.

From this sample the weight of 1115 thousandths is taken; this is
dissolved in a glass bottle with nitric acid. The standard solution of
salt is introduced and chloride of silver is the result, which contains
of the metallic silver 1000 parts; this is repeated until the addition
of the salt water shows but a faint trace of chloride below the upper
surface of the liquid. For instance: if three measures of the decimal
solution have been used with effect, the result will show that the 1115
parts of the piece contained 1003 of pure silver; and thus the proportion
of pure silver in the whole alloyed metal is ascertained. Extensive
knowledge and experience are required in such matters as making the
bone-ash cupels, fine proof gold and silver, testing acids, and other
special examinations and operations. The Assayer must, himself, be
familiar with all the operations of minting, as critical questions are
naturally carried to him. The rendering of decisions upon counterfeit
or suspicious coins has long been a specialty in this department. Once a
year the President appoints a scientific commission to examine the coins
of the preceding year. There has never yet been a Philadelphia coin found
outside of the tolerance of fineness.


THE SEPARATING ROOM.

This department occupies the largest part of the west side of the
building, on the second floor. Here the gold and silver used by the Mint
in the manufacture of coin and fine bars are separated from each other,
or whatever other metals may be mixed with them, and purified. It goes to
this room after having been once melted and assayed. In separating and
purifying gold, it is always necessary to add to it a certain quantity of
pure silver. The whole is then immersed in nitric acid, which dissolves
the silver into a liquid which looks like pure water. The acid does not
dissolve the gold, but leaves it pure. The silver solution is then drawn
off, leaving the gold at the bottom of the tub. It is then gathered up
into pans and washed.

The silver in the condition in which it is received from the hands of
the depositor, and generally filled with foreign impurities, is melted
and then granulated, after which the whole mass is dissolved with nitric
acid. The acid dissolves the base metals as well as the silver. The
liquid metals are then run into tubs prepared for it, and precipitated,
or rendered into a partially hard state, by being mixed with common
salt water. After being precipitated it is called “chloride,” and
resembles very closely new slacked lime. By putting spelter or zinc on
the precipitated chloride, it becomes metallic silver, and only needs
washing and melting to make the purest virgin metal. The base metals
remain in a liquid state, and being of little value are generally thrown
away. The process of refining silver is of two kinds; that of melting it
with saltpetre, etc., which was known some thousands of years since, and
the modern process of dissolving it in nitric acid, like the method of
extracting it from gold in the above described operation.

After the separating process has been completed, the gold or silver is
conveyed to the Drying Cellar, where it is put under pressure of some
eighty tons, and all the water pressed out. It is then dried with heat,
and afterwards conveyed in large cakes to the furnaces.


THE MELTING ROOMS

are on the first floor, in the west side of the building. Here all the
metal used in coining is alloyed, melted and poured into narrow moulds.
These castings are called ingots; they are about twelve inches long,
a half-inch thick, and vary from one to two a half-inches in breadth,
according to the coin for which they are used, one end being wedge-shaped
to allow its being passed through the rollers. The value of gold ingots
is from $600 to $1,400; those of silver, about $60. The fine gold and
silver bars used in the arts and for commercial purposes, are also cast
in this department.

[Illustration: CASTING INGOTS.]

[Illustration: INGOTS.]

These are stamped with their weight and value in the deposit room. The
floors that cover the melting rooms are made of iron in honey-comb
pattern, divided into small sections, so that they can be readily taken
up to save the dust; their roughness acting as a scraper, preventing any
metallic particles from clinging to the soles of the shoes of those who
pass through the department, the sweepings of which, and including the
entire building, averages $23,000 per annum, for the last five years.

The copper and nickel melting rooms, wherein all the base metals used
are melted and mixed, is on the same side and adjoining to the gold and
silver department. Up to the year 1856, the base coin of the United
States was exclusively copper. In this year the coinage of what was
called the nickel cents was commenced. These pieces, although called
nickel, were composed of one-eighth nickel; the balance was copper.

The composition of the five and three cent pieces is one-fourth nickel;
the balance copper. The bronze pieces were changed in 1859, and are a
mixture of copper, zinc and tin, about equal parts of each of the two
last; the former contributing about 95 per cent. There are seven furnaces
in this room, each capable of melting five hundred pounds of metal per
day. When the metal is heated and sufficiently mixed, it is poured into
iron moulds, and when cool, and the rough ends clipped off, is ready to
be conveyed to the rolling room.


THE ROLLING ROOM.

From the melting rooms through the corridor we reach the rolling room.
The upright engine, on the right, of one hundred and sixty horse power,
supplies the motive force to the rolling machines, four in number. Those
on the left, are massive and substantial in their frame-work, with
rollers of steel, polished by service in reducing the ingots to planchets
for coining. The first process or rolling is termed breaking down; after
that it requires to be passed through the machine until it is reduced to
the required thinness—ten times if gold, eight if silver, being annealed
in the intervals to prevent breaking. The rollers are adjustable and the
space between them can be increased or diminished at pleasure, by the
operator. About two hundred ingots are run through per hour on each pair
of rollers.

The pressure applied is so intense that half a day’s rolling heats, not
only the strips and rollers, but even the huge iron stanchions, weighing
several tons, so hot that you can hardly hold your hand on them.

When the rolling is completed the strip is about six feet long, or six
times as long as the ingot.

It is impossible to roll perfectly true. At times there will be a lump of
hard gold, which will not be quite so much compressed as the rest. If the
planchets were cut from this place, it would be heavier and more valuable
than one cut from a thinner portion of the strip. It is, therefore,
necessary to “draw” the strips, after being softened by annealing.

[Illustration: ROLLING MACHINE.]


ANNEALING FURNACES.

These are in the same room, to the right facing the rollers. The gold
and strips are placed in copper canisters, and then placed in the
furnaces and heated to a red heat; silver strips being laid loosely in
the furnace. When they become soft and pliable, they are taken out and
allowed to cool slowly.


THE DRAWING BENCHES.

These machines resemble long tables, with a bench on either side, at one
end of which is an iron box secured to the table. In this are fastened
two perpendicular steel cylinders, firmly supported in a bed, to prevent
their bending or turning around, and presenting but a small portion of
their circumference to the strip. These are exactly at the same distance
apart that the thickness of the strip is required to be. One end of the
strip is somewhat thinner than the rest, to allow it to pass easily
between the cylinders. When through, this end is put between the jaws
of a powerful pair of tongs, or pincers, fastened to a little carriage
running on the table. The carriage to the further bench is up close to
the cylinders, ready to receive a strip, which is inserted edgewise.
When the end is between the pincers, the operator touches a foot pedal
which closes the pincers firmly on the strip, and pressing another
pedal, forces down a strong hook at the left end of the carriage, which
catches in a link of the moving chain. This draws the carriage away from
the cylinders, and the strip being connected with it has to follow.
It is drawn between the cylinders, which operating on the thick part
of the strip with greater power than upon the thin, reduces the whole
to an equal thickness. When the strip is through, the strain on the
tongs instantly ceases, which allows a spring to open them and drop the
strip. At the same time another spring raises the hook and disengages
the carriage from the chain. A cord fastened to the carriage runs back
over the wheel near the head of the table, and then up to a couple of
combination weights on the wall beyond, which draw the carriage back to
the starting place, ready for another strip.

[Illustration: DRAWING BENCH.]


THE CUTTING MACHINES.

After being thoroughly washed, the strips are consigned to the cutting
machines. These are in the rear of the rolling mills, and are several in
number, each when in active operation cutting two hundred and twenty-five
planchets per minute. The press now used, consists of a vertical steel
punch, which works in a round hole or matrix, cut in a solid steel plate.
The action of the punch is obtained by an eccentric wheel. For instance,
in an ordinary carriage wheel, the axis is in the centre, and the wheel
revolves evenly around it. But if the axis is placed, say four inches
from the centre, then it would revolve with a kind of hobble. From this
peculiar motion its name is derived. Suppose the tire of the wheel is
arranged, not to revolve with, but to slip easily around the wheel, and a
rod is fastened to one side of the tire which prevents its turning. Now
as the wheel revolves and brings the _long side nearest the rod_, it will
push forward the rod, and when the long side of the wheel is _away from
the rod_, it draws the rod with it.

[Illustration: CUTTING MACHINE.]

[Illustration: STRIP FROM WHICH PLANCHETS ARE CUT.]

The upper shaft, on which are seen the three large wheels, has also
fastened to it, over each press, an eccentric wheel. In the first
illustration will be seen three upright rods running from near the table
to the top. The middle one is connected with a tire around the eccentric
wheel, and rises and falls with each revolution. The eccentric power
gives great rapidity of motion with but little jerking.

The operator places one end of a strip of metal in the immense jaws of
the press, and cuts out a couple of planchets, which are a fraction
larger than the coin to be struck. As the strips are of uniform
thickness, if these two are of the right weight, all cut from that strip
will be the same. They are therefore weighed accurately. If right, or a
little heavy, they are allowed to pass, as the extra weight can be filed
off. If too light, the whole strip has to be re-melted. As fast as cut
the planchets fall into a box below, and the perforated strips are folded
into convenient lengths to be re-melted. From a strip worth say eleven
hundred dollars, eight hundred dollars of planchets will be cut.


ADJUSTING ROOM.

[Illustration: DELICATE SCALES.]

The planchets are then removed to the adjusting room, where they are
adjusted. This work is performed by ladies. After inspection they are
weighed on very accurate scales. If a planchet is too heavy, but near
the weight, it is filed off at the edges; if too heavy for filing, it is
thrown aside with the light ones, to be re-melted. To adjust coin so
accurately requires great delicacy and skill, as a too free use of the
file would make it too light. Yet by long practice, so accustomed do the
operators become, that they work with apparent unconcern, scarce glancing
at either planchets or scales, and guided as it were by unerring touch.

The exceedingly delicate scales were made under the direction of Mr.
Peale, who greatly improved on the old ones in use. So precise and
sensitive are they that the slightest breath of air affects their
accuracy, rendering it necessary to exclude every draft from the room.


PROGRESS IN COINING.

The methods of coining money have varied with the progress in mechanic
arts, and are but indefinitely traced from the beginning; the primitive
mode, being by the casting of the piece in sand, the impression being
made with a hammer and punch. In the middle ages the metal was hammered
into sheets of the required thickness, cut with shears into shape, and
then stamped by hand with the design. The mill and screw, by which
greater increase in power, with finer finish was gained, dates back to
the Sixteenth Century. This process, with various modifications and
improvements, continued in use in the Philadelphia Mint until 1836.

[Illustration: ANCIENT COINING PRESS.]

The first steam coining press was invented by M. Thonnelier, of France,
in 1833, and was first used in the United States Mint in 1836. It was
remodeled and rebuilt in 1858, but in 1874 was superseded by the one now
in operation, the very perfection of mechanism, in which the vibration
and unsteady bearing of the former press were entirely obviated, and
precision attained by the solid stroke with a saving of over seventy-five
per cent. in the wearing and breaking of the dies.

[Illustration: STEAM COINING PRESS.]


DIES.

[Illustration: DIES.]

The dies for coining are prepared by engravers, especially employed
at the Mint for that purpose. The process of engraving them consists
in cutting the devices and legends in soft steel, those parts being
depressed which, in the coin, appear in relief. This, having been
finished and hardened, constitutes an “_original die_,” which, being
the result of a tedious and difficult task, is deemed too precious to
be directly employed in striking coins; but it is used for multiplying
dies. It is first used to impress another piece of soft steel, which
then presents the appearance of a coin, and is called a _hub_. This hub,
being hardened, is used to impress other pieces of steel in like manner
which, being like the original die, are hardened and used for striking
the coins. A pair of these will, on an average, perform two weeks’ work.


TRANSFER LATHE.

[Illustration]

The transfer lathe, a very complicated piece of machinery, is used in
making dies, for coins and medals. By it, from a large cast, the design
can be transferred and engraved in smaller size, in perfect proportion to
the original.


THE COINING AND MILLING ROOMS.

This department, the most interesting to the general visitor, occupies
the larger portion of the first floor on the east side of the building.
The rooms are divided by an iron railing, which separates the visitors,
on either side, from the machinery, etc., but allows everything to be
seen.

[Illustration: MILLING MACHINE.]

The planchets, after being adjusted, are received here, and, in order to
protect the surface of the coin, are passed through the milling-machine.
The planchets are fed to this machine through an upright tube, and, as
they descend from the lower aperture, they are caught upon the edge of
a revolving wheel and carried about a quarter of a revolution, during
which the edge is compressed and forced up—the space between the wheel
and the rim being a little less than the diameter of the planchet.
This apparatus moves so nimbly that five hundred and sixty half-dimes
can be milled in a minute; but, for large pieces, the average is about
one hundred and twenty. In this room are the milling machines, and the
massive, but delicate, coining presses, ten in number. Each of these is
capable of coining from eighty to one hundred pieces a minute. Only the
largest are used in making coins of large denominations.

[Illustration: PERFECTED COINING PRESS.]

[Illustration: COINING PRESS.]

The arch is a solid piece of cast iron, weighing several tons, and unites
with its beauty great strength. The table is also of iron, brightly
polished and very heavy. In the interior of the arch is a nearly round
plate of brass, called a triangle. It is fastened to a lever above by
two steel bands, termed stirrups, one of which can be seen to the right
of the arch. The stout arm above it, looking so dark in the picture, is
also connected with the triangle by a ball-and-socket joint, and it is
this arm which forces down the triangle. The arm is connected with the
end of the lever above by a joint somewhat like that of the knee. One end
of the lever can be seen reaching behind the arch to a crank near the
large fly-wheel. When the triangle is _raised_, the arm and near end of
the lever extends outward. When the crank lifts the further end of the
lever it draws in the knee and forces down the arm until it is perfectly
straight. By that time the crank has revolved and is lowering the lever,
which forces out the knee again and raises the arm. As the triangle is
fastened to the arm it has to follow all its movements.

Under the triangle, buried in the lower part of the arch, is a steel
cup, or, technically, a “die stake.” Into this is fastened the reverse
die. The die stake is arranged to rise one-eighth of an inch; when down
it rests firmly on the solid foundation of the arch. Over the die stake
is a steel collar or plate, in which is a hole large enough to allow a
planchet to drop upon the die. In the triangle above, the obverse die is
fastened, which moves with the triangle; when the knee is straightened
the die fits into the collar and presses down upon the reverse die.

Just in front of the triangle will be seen an upright tube made of brass,
and of the size to hold the planchets to be coined. These are placed in
this tube. As they reach the bottom they are seized singly by a pair of
steel feeders, in motion as similar to that of the finger and thumb as is
possible in machinery, and carried over the collar and deposited between
the dies, and, while the fingers are expanding and returning for another
planchet, the dies close on the one within the collar, and by a rotary
motion are made to impress it silently but powerfully. The fingers, as
they again close upon a planchet at the mouth of the tube, also seize
the coin, and, while conveying a second planchet on to the die, carry
the coin off, dropping it into a box provided for that purpose, and the
operation is continued _ad infinitum_. These presses are attended by
ladies, and do their work in a perfect manner. The engine that drives the
machinery is of one hundred and sixty horse-power.

After being stamped the coins are taken to the Coiner’s room, and placed
on a long table—the double eagles in piles of ten each. It will be
remembered that, in the Adjusting Room, a difference of one-half a grain
was made in the weight of some of the double eagles. The light and heavy
ones are kept separate in coining, and when delivered to the treasurer,
they are mixed together in such proportions as to give him full weight
in every delivery. By law the deviation from the standard weight, in
delivering to him, must not exceed three pennyweights in one thousand
double eagles. The gold coins—as small as quarter eagles being counted
and weighed to verify the count—are put up in bags of $5,000 each. The
three-dollar pieces are put up in bags of $3,000, and one-dollar pieces
in $1,000 bags. The silver pieces, and sometimes small gold, are counted
on a very ingenious contrivance called a “counting-board.”

[Illustration: COUNTING BOARD.]

By this process twenty-five dollars in five-cent pieces can be counted
in less than a minute. The “boards” are a simple flat surface of wood,
with copper partitions, the height and size of the coin to be counted,
rising from the surface at regular intervals, and running parallel with
each other from top to bottom. They somewhat resemble a common household
“washing board,” with the grooves running parallel with the sides but
much larger. The boards are worked by hand, over a box, and as the pieces
are counted they slide into a drawer prepared to receive them. They are
then put into bags and are ready for shipment.[8]




THE CABINET.


The room in the Mint used for the Cabinet is on the second floor. It was
formerly a suite of three apartments connected by folding-doors, but the
doors have been removed, and it is now a pleasant saloon fifty-four feet
long by sixteen wide. The eastern and western sections are of the same
proportions, each with a broad window. The central section is lighted
from the dome, which is supported by four columns. There is an open space
immediately under the dome, to give light to the hall below, which is the
main entrance to the Mint. Around this space is a railing and a circular
case for coins. The Cabinet of Coins was established in 1838, by Dr. R.
M. Patterson, then Director of the Mint. Anticipating such a demand,
reserves had been made for many years by Adam Eckfeldt,[9] the Coiner,
of the “master coins” of the Mint; a term used to signify first pieces
from new dies, bearing a high polish and struck with extra care. These
are now more commonly called “proof pieces.” With this nucleus, and a
few other valuable pieces from Mr. Eckfeldt, the business was committed
to the Assay Department, and especially to Mr. Du Bois, Assistant
Assayer. The collection grew, year by year, by making exchanges to supply
deficiencies, by purchases, by adding our own coin, and by saving foreign
coins from the melting-pot—a large part in this way, at a cost of not
more than their bullion value, though demanding great care, appreciation,
and study. Valuable donations were also made by travelers, consuls, and
missionaries. In 1839, Congress appropriated the sum of $1,000 for the
purchase of “specimens of ores and coins to be preserved at the Mint.”
Annually, since, the sum of $300 has been appropriated by the Government
for this object. More has not been asked or desired, for the officers of
the Mint have not sought to vie with the long established collections of
the national cabinets of the old world, or even to equal the extravagance
of some private numismatists; but they have admirably succeeded in their
purpose to secure such coins as would interest all, from the schoolboy to
the most enthusiastic archæologist. The economic principle upon which the
collection has been gathered is a lesson to all governmental departments
in frugality, as well as a restraint upon the natural tendency to
extravagance which has heretofore distinguished those who have a passion
for old coins. There are thousands of coin collectors in the United
States, and fortunes have been accumulated in this strange way. More than
one authenticated instance has been known in this country where a man
has lived in penury, and died from want, yet possessed of affluence in
time-defaced coins.


RELICS.

Having referred to the portraits of the Directors of the Mint, we will
cite other interesting subjects of observation, before describing the
coins.

The first object in the Cabinet attracting attention is a framed copy of
the law of Congress establishing the Mint, with its quaint phraseology
with the signature of Thomas Jefferson. (See fac simile on page 11.)

In the first section, near the western window, is the assorting machine,
the invention of a Frenchman, Baron Seguier, and which is now in use in
the Mint at Paris.

The planchets for coinage are liable to be a little too heavy or too
light; it is therefore necessary, at least in the case of gold, to assort
them by weighing. This machine is designed to enable one person to do
the work of many. “The planchets are thrown into the hopper at the rear,
and, being arranged by the action of the wheel, slide down balances. By
machinery beneath they are carried one by one to the nearest platforms to
be weighed. If too heavy, the tall needle of the beam leans to the right
and lifts a pallet-wire, which connects with an apparatus under the table
by which the planchet is pushed off and slides into one of the brass pans
in front. If the piece be light, the needle is drawn over to the left,
and touches the other pallet, which makes a passage to another brass
pan. If the piece be of true weight, or near enough, the needle stands
perpendicular between the pallets, and the piece finds its way into the
third brass pan.”

On the opposite wall is a fine cast of Cromwell, a duplicate of one
taken shortly after his death. It was placed here by Mr. W. E. Du Bois,
who received it from H. W. Field, Esq., late Assayer of the Royal Mint,
London, who is a descendant of the great Protector. Below the cast of
Cromwell is a case showing progressive “alloys of gold.” The plates
comprise gold alloyed with copper, gold alloyed with silver, and gold
fine.

In the eastern section are the Standard Test Scales, used to test the
weights sent to all the mints and assay offices in the United States, and
are so delicate as to weigh the _twenty-thousandth_ part of an ounce.
These scales were manufactured by employees of the Mint, and have been
in use more than a quarter of a century. The beam is hollow, and filled
with Spanish cedar to guard against the effect of dampness; the bearings
are edges of knife-blades, which impinge on a surface of agate plate.
These scales are tested by the Annual Assay Committee, which meets on the
second Tuesday in February of every year.


CURIOSITIES AND MINERALS.

The most interesting objects of this curious display are three golden
images from graves in the Island of Chiriqui, off Central America. They
were dug up in 1858, and sent to the Mint as bullion, to be melted. They
are of pure gold, but the workmanship is very crude. The images are in
the forms of a reptile, a bird, and a man with symbols of power in his
hands, not unlike those designating Jupiter. There are also, in the first
section, two large cases with choice selections of mineral specimens,
carefully classified and labeled. These are from well selected results of
years of patient collecting, and are deserving of more study than can be
devoted to them by casual visitors. They are chiefly from different parts
of the United States, and are an “index book” to the vast mineral wealth
of the nation.

Near the exit door of the Cabinet, in a large glass case, is a
magnificent American eagle, which is worthy of the visitor’s attention.
It is superbly mounted, with grand breadth of wing and wondrous piercing
eyes. The portrait of this “pet” can be recognized on Reverse of the
“Pattern” Silver Dollars of 1836, 1838, and 1839, and on the Obverse of
the first nickel cent pieces coined in 1856.


“PETER,”

the name which the noble bird recognized, was an inhabitant of the Mint
six years. He would fly about the city, but no one interfered with the
going or coming of the “Mint bird,” and he never failed to return from
his daily exercise before the time for closing the building. In an evil
hour he unfortunately perched upon a large fly wheel, and getting caught
in the machinery, received a fatal injury to his wing, and this ended
rather an unusual career for an eagle.


EASTERN CORRIDOR.

Opening into the eastern corridor are the rooms of the Superintendent,
the Chief Clerk, and the library of Historical and Scientific Works,
including many valuable books upon the art of coinage. Passing out
upon the gallery, we enter the Machinists’ and Engravers’ rooms.
Here are engraved and finished the dies used in this Mint and in all
the branch mints. Visitors are not ordinarily allowed access to these
rooms, or to the assay office, or to the cellar. (In the latter are a
number of immense vaults, and in the main cellar are engines, which
supply the power and light used throughout the building.) Here are also
blacksmith, carpenter, and paint shops; and in the rear, west side, is
the medal-striking room, where medals are struck by a screw press, worked
by hand. The cellar also contains the “sweep” grinding rooms. Near this
room are the wells, which are receptacles for the water used in washing
the precious metals. These wells are cleaned out every few years and the
deposit is then treated in the same way as the sweepings.

The little wooden building in the court was formerly the cent-room, where
copper cents were exchanged for nickels;[10] it is now the office of the
agent of the Adams Express Company, who brings to the Philadelphia Mint
millions of dollars worth of precious metals in the shape of bullion
from the far west, to be converted into American Coin, when it is
again transported by the same company to various points to be put into
circulation.


COINS.

The ancient coins are chiefly arranged in upright cases against the
walls in the doorways and the middle section of the saloon. The modern
coins are placed in nearly level cases at either end of the room and
in the circular or central cases. Of antique coins the portion labeled
Cabinet Nos. 97, 98, 99, “Massilia,” are interesting as belonging to a
Greek colony which settled about six hundred years before Christ upon the
coast of Gaul, on the spot now known as Marseilles. This little colony
fled their native country and the rule of a governor placed over it by a
Persian monarch. They were distinguished for their civilization, and the
work upon these small coins is the most palpable witness of that fact in
existence to-day.


GREEK COINS.

Their surfaces, of gold, silver, and bronze, bristle with lance and
spear, helmet and shield. On one of these coins Jove is seated and
bearing an eagle, defying Alexander of Macedon, while on the obverse the
same mighty conqueror impersonates Hercules. The oldest coin here is
supposed to date back to 550 B.C. It is well to mention the fact that
coins were never dated until the fifteenth century; and previous to
that time the ages of coins can only be determined by the legends upon
them, as answering to the page of corroborative history and the art era
to which they belonged. No. 9 bears on the obverse the Macedonian horse,
a favorite animal, which the then war-loving Greeks are said to have
deified. At this period the haughty royal families began to chronicle in
coin their line of descent. The kings of Macedon claimed Hercules for
an ancestor, and in proof thereof the lion’s skin was a royal insignia.
An old historian says, “The kings of Macedon, instead of the crown, the
diadem, the purple, bear upon their effigy the skin of a lion.” Several
pieces of money in this case, upon which are heads of Alexander, have
rings in them, and were worn by gracious dames as ornaments. The value
of this series of coins is priceless, as furnishing portraits of the
heroes of that period which can be received without question as accurate,
for the art patronage of the kingdom was regulated by the strictest
laws. Alexander was especially jealous of how the future nations should
regard his physique, allowing only three artists, during his reign,
the privilege of drawing, painting, or modeling his head.[11] To such
royal guardianship may be attributed the perfection to which Greek art
attained; and it may well be a matter of regret that the same firmness in
this regard was not universal. The last coin of this series is a small
bronze coin, and was issued by Perseus, the last king of Macedon.


PERSIAN.

In this case is a collection of Persian coins, very choice, and of no
mean workmanship, and, of course, portraying the faith and rites of the
fire-worshippers. One era is distinctly Greek in style, and marks the
period of Greek supremacy. The oldest gold coin known to the collector is
the gold Daric of King Darius, with the head of the king in bold relief;
and all Persian coins are so called in remembrance of this monarch. Their
money was very fine, so the word _Daric_ has become incorporated into
numismatic terminology to designate any pure gold coin. Nos. 58 to 67,
inclusive, of this series, are silver coins of the Sassanian kings.


EGYPT

is also represented in this case, as is proper, for that nation had no
coinage until it was taught the art when conquered by Alexander. Here
are some very attractive data of Egyptian history, and from these coins
are obtained the only portraits of Arsinoe, Cleopatra, and others.


THE SYRIAN COINS

are embraced in the division called “Greek monarchies,” and in them are
found many coins not only important in history, but of the very finest
Greek art, from the third to the first century B.C. In this period the
Syriac and Hebrew coins become intermingled, a fact abundantly sustained
by the Jewish shekel of Simon Maccabees. The legend of this interesting
relic is in the language of Samaria; on one side the budding rod of
Aaron, legend, “Jerusalem the Holy;” on the other, a cup of incense or
pot of manna, and the inscription, “Shekel of Israel.” This shekel is
well preserved, and is one of the most prized coins known. (See Plate and
Case XV., marked “_Selections_.”) In this collection are some coins from
Bactria, considered priceless by savans. These are trophies of recent
British explorations, and are judged to be of sufficient importance
to call forth from an English professor an extended treatise on the
“Antiquities and Coins of Afghanistan.” They are exceedingly rude in
workmanship, and nearly all of baser metal, the most important being a
small, square, brass coin, in the case marked “_Selections_.”


ROMAN COINS.

The collection of Roman coins in this Cabinet numbers nearly one
thousand, and an acquaintance with it is invaluable for object teaching,
as in it is the condensed history, not only of the glory of Rome,
“Mistress of the World,” but of her customs, faith, conquests, wealth,
culture, divisions, and _downfall_. Through this entire section of
time—one-third of the known history of the world—Roman art, though high,
never reached the exalted purity of Greek lines. In their finest coins
we see no Phidias, no Myron, no Praxiteles, but they deteriorate and
fluctuate visibly when in or out of contact with the influence of the
Grecian mind.


GREEK REPUBLIC

will be first in interest, both historic and artistic. It is conceded
that to the Greeks the world owes the introduction of the art of coinage,
and though centuries numbered by tens have passed, some of the old Greek
coins equal many modern productions in purity of lines, and surpass
nearly all in poetic sentiment. On the first coins no earthly potentate
was allowed to be pictured, no deed of heroism portrayed. The glory of
the gods was considered the only appropriate theme for impressions on the
surface of bronze, silver, and gold. The coins of the republic embrace a
large variety, as nearly a thousand towns were allowed the privilege of
coinage. Upon this varied issue are preserved nearly all the legends of
Greek mythology. Upon the coins are the heads of Jupiter, Juno, Minerva,
Bacchus, Apollo, and Diana, with many sacred animals, and the work is
to-day the standard of artistic perfection. Of course, the collection of
this ancient period cannot be extensive. In this case there are, however,
more than one hundred and fifty specimens, and these present a study so
attractive and so intense that it is almost impossible to imagine what
classic poetry would be without it.

Nos. 4, 5, and 6, are silver coins of Ægina, which have on the obverse,
for a device, the tortoise, emblematic of the security of the island amid
the waves, and the protection of the gods of the sea. On the reverse are
the marks of the punches only, probably denoting the value of the coins.
These are claimed to belong to an era seven hundred years before Christ.
No. 28 is a silver coin of Athens, with a head of Minerva splendidly
drawn upon the obverse, while the reverse presents a large owl, the bird
sacred to the goddess of Wisdom. The devices upon this coin indicate its
age to be from twenty-one to twenty-three centuries. The Greek proverb of
“taking owls to Athens” referred to this coin, which was necessarily of
great importance to the tradespeople of that city.


FAMILY COINS.

These comprise about one hundred and seventy-five, of which one hundred
and twenty-six are in the collection. They were struck to record the
heroic deeds which first introduced any notable ancestor to fame,
and hence are to-day family charts of respectability for many of the
patricians of Rome, albeit some of them have plebeian roots. Be that as
it may, they are as much the trusted patents of aristocracy as is the
“Book of the Peerage” of England. Here are found the same distinctions
between patrician and plebeian which mark all countries, the patricians
being always designated by a symbol of warfare, while the plebeians
were indicated by the tools and instruments of common trade. The more
noticeable of the coins are as follows: No. 16, Acilia; the reverse a
female leaning against a pillar, with a serpent clutched in her right
hand, indicating the wisdom or courage of some ancestor. No. 20, Æmilia;
on the obverse of this curious coin is a figure kneeling by the side
of a camel, presenting an olive branch, from which depends a fillet or
ancient diadem; on the reverse, a figure guiding a triumphal chariot, a
scorpion in the field. Josephus tells us of an invasion of Arabia, and
that Aretus, the king of the country, purchased peace of the Romans for
five hundred talents. The diadem hanging from the olive branch chronicles
the entire humiliation of Aretus, and the scorpion doubtless indicates
the month of the Roman triumph. No. 30, Aquillia, a small silver coin;
the reverse shows a woman kneeling before a soldier. The motto below
the figures (or in the _exergue_ of the coin, as is the art term) is
“_Sicil_.” This commemorates the suppression of a revolt of slaves in
Sicily, which was achieved by Manlius Aquillia. No. 41, Calpurnia, the
family of Cæsar’s noble wife; reverse, a horseman riding at full speed, a
head of wheat above him; legend, L. Piso-Trugi. The coin recalls the fact
that in the year 507 B.C. there was a famine in Rome, and Calpurnius Piso
was dispatched to Africa to buy corn. This seemingly small service is
magnified upon a large number of coins. Nos. 95 and 96, Hostilia, a coin
with a sacrifice to _Pallor_ and _Pavor_ (fear and trembling), offered
by Tullus Hostilius in some great emergency. No. 97, Julia; obverse, a
helmeted head; legend, Cæsar; reverse, a warrior in a chariot drawn by
two horses.

No. 98, Junia; obverse, head of Liberty; reverse, Junius Brutus guarded
by lictors, and preceded by a herald, showing that an ancestor of
Junius Brutus was the first consul of Rome. Nos. 181, 182, Tituria.
The reverse shows two soldiers throwing their shields upon a prostrate
female, illustrating the famous story of the “Tarpeian Rock.” Reverse
represents the Romans carrying off Sabine women—a witness in coin of the
fact that the family of Tituria trace their ancestry from the Sabines.
To do justice to this case is impossible, for here are coins relating to
the ancestors of Antonia, Aurelia, Cornelia, Fulvia, Horatio, Lucretia,
Lucilla, Sempronia, Titia Valeria, and many others familiar to the
readers of history.

This era of coins terminated about the time of the birth of Christ, when
the


IMPERIAL COINS

were introduced. In noticing these, little save the labels on the case
can be given.


_Division II._

Julius Cæsar to Trajan, inclusive. Beginning 49 B.C., and ending 117 A.D.
A simple catalogue of the illustrious names on these coins would convey
an idea of their importance. All the victories of Cæsar are marked by
coinage; but out of the two hundred belonging to this case reference need
only be made to No. 24, a beautiful gold coin, with the undraped head
of Augustus, exquisitely severe, the interest attaching chiefly to the
legend, “The Son of God,” referring to the deification of Cæsar.


_Division III._

embraces from Hadrian to Elagabalus, 117-222. In the reign of Hadrian
much coin was issued, though it did not bear marks of the disasters and
revolts that signalized the foregoing. That he was a merciful ruler is
indicated by the coins, especially one—Hispania; the reverse showing the
emperor raising Spain—a female figure—from the ground. His travels are
also illustrated in coin.


_Division IV._

From Severus Alexander to Claudius Gothicus, 222-270. These coins
indicate the vicious effect of the rulers immediately preceding.


_Division V._

From Aurelian to the end of the Western Empire; includes 270-475. A
brilliant succession; Aurelian’s busy reign, ending in assassination; the
war-like Probus, the slave-emperor; Diocletian’s despotism and vindictive
persecution of Christians; the usurpation of Carausius; the happy reign
of Constantine the Great, Julian, Theodosius, down to Julius Nepos. These
are a few of the historic names and events presented in this division.


_Division VI._

covers the period of the Byzantine or Eastern Empire, and a lapse of
eight centuries; but the coinage is not comparable with that of other
eras, nor were events of so stirring and heroic a character. A general
decay, painful to contemplate, marked this long lapse of time, which
began near the acceptance of Christianity, and extended through the dark
ages.


“THE TEMPLE SWEEPERS.”

A small case attracts no little attention, because it contains a single
coin; and the interest does not decrease when the inscription is read:
“Struck in the Philadelphia Mint, at least two thousand years ago.” The
late Assayer of the Philadelphia Mint, Mr. W. E. Du Bois, under title of
“The Temple Sweepers,” wrote, not long since, a valuable sketch of this
coin, made in the City of Attalus Philadelphus, Asia Minor, and for which
William Penn called his city, because the ancient one was a monument of
“brotherly love.” Diana was the patroness of Philadelphia.

“On one side, then, we have a head; not a king’s nor an emperor’s; as
yet the free city had a pride and a privilege above that. It is a female
head, an ideal, representing the city itself; or rather the dwellers
in it, the _Demos_. Here in this head and title, we have the radix of
Democracy.

“This is all we can gather from the obverse. On the other side we have a
larger variety: a running female figure; a dog also on the trot; a legend
of some length and of more significance.

“The half-clad figure is that of the goddess known to the Greeks as
Artemis, to the Latins as Diana; and otherwise called Selene, Phœbe,
Delia, or Cynthia.

“She was the favorite divinity of the cities of Asia Minor. Once the
patroness of chastity and purity. Goddess of the chase.”

The legend on the obverse of this coin explains its name: “Friends of
Philadelphia’s [her] Temple Sweepers.”


ORIENTAL.

Oriental coins are not as attractive as other varieties, though there
are special coins among them which have no rival in historic importance.
Antique coins from the East were usually without device, and, their
legends being rudely inscribed in a dead language, proved frequently to
be sealed fountains to the thirsting antiquarian. Therefore in cases
marked “Oriental” the visitor is undetermined where to begin to study,
and often decides to give it but little time.

Those having for device the sacred peacock are from Burmah; there
is, however, in the division marked “Selections” a very curious coin
belonging to that country, which certainly formed a part of its earliest
currency. It is a common gravel-stone, encased in a circling band of
brass.


COINS OF SIAM.

The coins of Siam are much sought for. Some of them, known to European
travelers as “bullet money,” are lumps of gold or silver, hammered by
rude implements into a doubtful roundness, and a few Siamese characters
stamped irregularly upon them. The sacred elephant is found on a large
proportion of their money. A Siamese coin in the Cabinet, of modern date,
is quite handsome in both workmanship and design. On the obverse is the
sacred elephant in ponderous proportion, which delights the eyes of the
devout, and the reverse presents a group of three pagodas, finely drawn.
In the case marked “Selections” is a Siamese coin of gold, comparatively
modern, called “Tecal,” corresponding in some respects to the “Shekel,”
or “Oxen,” of biblical fame.


CHINESE COINS.

On the south side of the first section is a case of seven hundred
coins of the Celestial Empire. With but few exceptions these coins are
bronzed. Dynasty succeeds dynasty; usurpation, insurrection, are all writ
in bronze. The Chinese assert an uninterrupted coinage for forty-one
centuries. The manuscript attesting this is in the case, and was prepared
under authority. Large numbers of their coins were considered charms,
sufficient to protect the owner against fever, or even the more dreaded
horrors of spiritual menace. In this connection it may be said that the
Chinese had an exalted reverence for the coin-charm, and a small coin
was often placed in the mouth of the dead (now, if a Chinaman dies in
California, a small silver United States coin is placed on his tongue).
These coins were covered with cabalistic characters, symbolic animals,
birds, etc. Two worthy of notice in this regard, and said to be of the
oldest issue, are Nos. 1 and 2. The first might be mistaken for an iron
safe-key; the second is known as the “razor coin,” its form and almost
its size being that of a razor.

In another case, appropriately labeled, is the Chinese porcelain money.
They are the only people who have made porcelain a “legal tender,” though
it would appear that almost every part of the three kingdoms of nature
has been laid under contribution. The specimen here may be mistaken for
the popular Chinese sleeve-button, bought in any bazaar for a few cents.
The Chinese, as did also the Africans, utilized the small sea-shells for
trade. In the same case are some of the variety legalized. Ten small
shells made one “cash.” This is a small, round, copper-bronzed coin,
with a square hole in the centre. The Chinese dames of high degree wore
such strung around their throats. One thousand of them are equal to our
dollar. The Japanese, however, _outcount_ their neighbors, as they have a
bronze coin called the “One-hundredth,” of which just seven thousand make
one Spanish dollar.

Shell money of pure gold, “or gold beaten into small solid shells, was
made by those natives who supplied the Portuguese slave-traders with
slaves,” and was called by the traders “Spondylus Macutus,” from which,
some contend, came the _slang_ term “spondulics.” Forty of those small
coins, each worth about a dollar of Spanish money, was a high price for a
slave.

There is also in the Cabinet a valuable collection of African ring money.
These ornaments are very massive and pure, comprised of elaborately
carved “signet-rings, armlets, anklets,” etc. One article, more novel
and valuable than the others, is a pipe of fine gold, bowl and handle of
curious bas-relief figures, and a heavy, square-linked chain attaching a
large medallion, on which is the head of a monarch poorly drawn.

The Chinese government, like all despotisms, is very jealous of its
coining prerogatives; yet it does not fail to appreciate an advantage
when offered, as is evident to us by the following:

    Proclamation for general information:

    “WHEREAS, The foreign silver (coin) in daily use among
    the people of the Kwang Tung Provinces has long been in
    circulation, and is moreover admitted to be advantageous and
    convenient. In the 5th and 11th years of Tung Chih (1866 and
    1872) the Hong Kong Mint coined a new Dollar which, upon
    comparison with pure silver, bore a proportion of fully ninety
    per cent., and as the Records will prove. Proclamations were
    issued notifying the people that it might come into general
    circulation. There has lately come to Hong Kong a newly coined
    American Eagle Dollar, called the “Trade Dollar,” and Sir
    Brooke Robinson, the British Consul, having requested that
    officers might be appointed to assay it, the Viceroy and
    Haikwan thereupon appointed officers to melt it down and assay
    it, in concert with (an officer from the British Consulate),
    when, taking the Haikwan Tael of pure silver as the standard,
    an outturn was obtained of fully 89.61—or Taels 111.6 of this
    new Eagle Dollar are equal to 100 Haikwan Taels of pure silver.
    Minutes of the assay were drawn up in proof thereof.

    “For the convenience of Traders and people, therefore, this
    coin should be allowed to be tendered in payment of duties at
    the rate of touch obtained at the assay, and to come into daily
    circulation. It becomes the duty then of the Viceroy and his
    colleagues to issue a Proclamation on the subject for general
    information.

    “This Proclamation, therefore, is for the information of you
    merchants, traders, soldiers, and people of every district.
    You must know that the ‘Eagle Trade Dollar’ that has lately
    come to Hong Kong has been jointly assayed by officers
    specially appointed for the purpose, and it can be taken in
    payment of duties, and come into general circulation. _You must
    not look upon it with suspicion._ At the same time rogues,
    sharpers, and the like, are hereby strictly forbidden to
    fabricate spurious imitations of this new Eagle Dollar, with a
    view to their own profit.

    “And should they dare to set this prohibition at defiance,
    and fabricate false coin, they shall, upon discovery, most
    assuredly be arrested and punished. Let every one obey with
    trembling! Let there be no disobedience!

    “A Special Proclamation. Tung Chih 12th year, 9th moon—day
    (October, 1873.)

    “Translated by

                                       “(Signed) WALTER C. HILLIER.”


JAPAN.

Perhaps the peculiar adaptability of the Japanese character cannot be
better illustrated than by their late monetary revolution, especially as
their coinage is hedged around with laws, with penal attachments of no
doubtful character. In the small morocco case marked “Japan” are a few
specimens of their original coin. Of this series the large gold plate,
four inches by three and a half, is known as the “Gold Oban,” their
most valuable coin, worth about seventy-five dollars. This coin is of
perfectly smooth surface, with an elaborate black inscription of Japanese
text, burnt in by a chemical process. To take the “Gold Oban” out of the
kingdom is _punishable with death_; to remove it by mistake, subjects the
offender to imprisonment for life. The other coins in this case are, in
their composition and shape, as distinctive as the Japanese are peculiar
as a people. The progressive character of the Japanese is exemplified by
their recent acceptance of the United States system of coinage.

The mind of the Japanese proletaire has been much troubled in recent
years with regard to the coinage of his country; not that he ever has
much of the currency in question, but the Japanese proletaire has no
pockets, and he finds it awkward to carry in his hands such coins as he
contrives to possess. In ancient times his rulers were more considerate.
They punched square holes in the centre of the coins, through which he
passed a string, and was thus able to carry about his available capital
tied around his neck or to his waistband, which in those days was his
sole garment. The coins were not large in amount; it took a thousand of
them to make a few shillings, while a cart was required to convey five
dollars worth. But with civilization came an improved coinage, larger
in value, and with no holes, and the pocketless proletaire naturally
grumbled that civilization treated him hardly in this respect. Paper
currency for small amounts partially satisfied him for a time; but at
last his cries have been heard, and the Japanese Government has promised
to issue a new coin specially for his behoof. Its value is rather less
than one cent, and is to possess the indispensable hole, by which he can
string it as a child strings beads, and he is probably content.


TURKEY.

Turkish coins often bear texts from the Koran on either side, so it may
be said the tenets of their religion are their circulating medium. The
piastres in this collection are generally those now in circulation.


EGYPT.

Egypt’s antique coins were of Greek or Roman workmanship, of which the
very finest is in the case marked “Selections,” and has not its superior
for interest or beauty in the world. It was the work of some Greek
artist, and presents the head of Arsinoe, wife of Ptolemy. It was found
in 1868, and bought by the United States Government at a high price; but
as only three had been found, its market value may be named by thousands,
though its metal value is not more than twenty dollars.

This notice of Oriental coins may conclude with suggestive reference to
the “Cufic coins,” of which there are some valuable specimens. The first
is the silver dirhem of Walid, the eccentric caliph of Damascus, A.D.
713. There is also in case XV. a coin of the reign of Haroun Alraschid.


FRENCH COINAGE.

The French have the credit of making the greatest improvements in modern
coinage. The French coins are a history of that nation, from the small
coin issued in the reign of Louis “the Meek” to the last currency of the
republic of France, spanning a period of one thousand years.

In design and execution the French coins bear the impress of the national
character, and also give assurance of the art patronage in which her
rulers, failing in much, have never wavered, but brought all their power
and cunning to bear on securing the best artists, as in the instance
of Francis I. beguiling from the holy father that exquisite artist
Benvenuto Cellini, or the later _enterprise_ of Napoleon Bonaparte. No.
83,—a medalet of the unhappy Mario Antoinette,—which is in itself very
beautiful, and from its tragic association attracts general interest.


GERMANY.

The collection of Germany is very large and divided and sub-divided by
its kingdoms and principalities.

One of the most interesting coins of any age, and excelling in beauty as
well, is the gold medallic ducat on which are the heads of Martin Luther
and Philip Melanchthon. This coin is very generally admired by visitors
to the Cabinet.


COINS OF SWITZERLAND.

Switzerland is modestly represented in all her cantons, each, like the
classic Greek town, enjoying the coining privilege. There are several
pieces of commemorative and artistic worth, especially the two issues of
the republic of 1796.


RUSSIAN COINS.

The double rouble, with a magnificent draped head of Peter the Great, is
unexcelled for strength of outline, and valuable as a correct portrait of
one of the very greatest and most self-reliant of modern rulers. Turning
to another rouble, the features of Elizabeth II. are recognized. It may
be assumed, with all due deference to royalty, that this portrayal is the
most laughter-provoking figure ever stamped on metal. She is so fat as to
have the effect of “spreading herself” all over the coin. Another rouble
presents the majestic Catherine II.

Of the coins marked Denmark, Norway, Sweden, there can be only the
copper half-daler of Sweden mentioned. This coin is four inches square,
weighs about twelve ounces, and is equivalent to a United States silver
half-dollar. The daler of Sweden, thaler of Germany, dollar of Spain and
America, are all synonymous terms.


ENGLAND.

The first coins of Great Britain were of tin, according to Cæsar’s
authority, who mentions the “tin money of Britain,” which has lately been
sustained by the discovery, in some work of excavation, of coins of that
metal in antique design. These coins are, however, of little use, by
reason of the obscure inscription, or rather the frequent absence of all
device.

The English collection in the Cabinet begins with a coin made after the
stater of Greece, presenting the head of Minerva, with Greek helmet
on obverse, while the reverse gives the figure of a woman most crudely
drawn. It is supposed this rude attempt at art was coined about the time
of the Roman invasion. Note the contrast presented in placing this relic
by the side of the Victorian sovereign, where, on the obverse, is the
queen’s head superbly cut; on the reverse, Wyon’s inimitable figure of
Una and the Lion. These two coins are the Alpha and the Omega of British
coinage, while the thousands issued between them are progressive links to
civilization.

Two small coins are placed here, thought to be contemporary with the
Christian era, having no device, but an attempt to portray the sun on
one side. No. 2 is the skeattae of Ethelbert I, king of Saxony, and is
the first Saxon coin which has yet been appropriated. It bears upon the
obverse the head of the king; on the reverse is the figure of a bird.

Next in interest is No. 6, the penny of William the Conqueror. The
bust of that famous monarch is attempted; 1068 is about the year it
is supposed to have been made. During the three centuries following,
the condition of England, whether she was at peace or war, is plainly
indicated by her coinage. Every added province is memorialized in coin.
The rose, thistle, and fleur-de-lis, all tell in strange language for
flowers of bloody battles, long sieges, perils by the sea and land; at
last all resistance bowing before the ever-increasing power of Great
Britain.

The first coin of English issue was dated in 1553, being either the close
of Edward VI.’s or the beginning of Queen Mary’s reign. This is claimed
by many to be the first coin dated, though old medals of the preceding
century have been found with date.

In 1558, the ryal or royal of Queen Elizabeth was issued. On the obverse
the queen is grandly enthroned, while the reverse is a large rose, in the
centre of which are the Danish arms of Britain, and the arms of Anjou
quartered. This coin and the pound sterling of Charles I. are in Case
XV., “Selections.”

This pound sterling is one of the famous “siege pieces” of that unhappy
king,—which were often made on the field with hammer and anvil out of
the family plate brought to the closely-pressed Stuart by his faithful
followers. It is to be regretted that so much valuable family plate of no
mean workmanship was thus sacrificed. This “siege piece” is the largest
silver coin known. The legend upon it, rudely inscribed, is, “Let God
arise; let his enemies be scattered;” above are three fleurs-de-lis, with
date, “1642.”

In 1684-88, during the short reign of James II., several varieties of
new coins were introduced, notably, “Maundy Money,” a small coin made to
be distributed by the king on “Maundy Thursday.” Beggars, on that day,
received from his majesty bags containing as many maundy pieces as the
king had lived years.

King James II. also had issued “gun money.” This variety was made out
of old cannon, after the suppression of an Irish rebellion. Though not
even giving a glance towards the interesting series of Queen Anne, it
is impossible to pass unnoticed the beautiful bust of George IV., by
Chantrey, upon a pattern five-sovereign piece. This well-executed bust of
“the handsomest man in Europe,” was said to be the means of Sir Francis
Chantrey being knighted. That vain monarch was as careful about how his
face would appear to future generations as was Alexander of Macedon; and
Chantrey well knew if he placed upon the shoulders of sixty years the
head of forty years, he had given the cabalistic words which would be the
“open sesame” to royal favor.

The gold sovereign of Victoria, Nos. 183-184, has, on the reverse, an
evidence of coins as a deposit of law archives. The shield surrounded by
a crown, and bearing the arms of Great Britain quartered; but the arms of
Hanover _are omitted_. Although Victoria was next heir to William IV.,
she was prevented by the Salic law from assuming the sceptre of Hanover.
On this coin, it may be remembered, are very beautifully presented the
rose, the thistle, and the shamrock.

A recent addition has been made to the Mint Cabinet of a very fine
sovereign of the times of Oliver Cromwell, purchased at the coin sale of
May 14 and 15, 1885.

Scotch moneys of any variety, are very much prized by collectors (see, in
Case XV., “Selections,” “Groat of Robert Bruce, 1602.”) A very rare coin
is the penny of Robert II. of Scotland, said to be the only specimen in
existence of that monarch’s reign. In the seventeenth century the coinage
of Scotland merged into that of England.


ENGLISH SILVER TOKENS,

issued in England, Scotland, and Ireland. During the long suspension of
specie payments, occasioned by the wars with Napoleon, the minor currency
of England was supplied, not with small paper notes, but with silver
tokens, issued by banks and traders, and made redeemable in bank notes.
They were of reduced weight, to keep within the premium, and to prevent
hoarding. They continued to circulate until the return of better times
and of regular silver coinage. There were many varieties, most of which
are here.


PORTUGAL AND SPAIN.

The coinage of Portugal and Spain in the fifteenth century, held greater
sway than that of other countries. Of their coins, there are many fine
specimens in the Mint Cabinet. The “joe and half-joe[12]” of Portugal are
known of all nations, while the Spanish dollar, with its pretentious two
globes under a crown, did not claim too much, and only tells the almost
limitless rule of the great Philip. The coins of these nations became,
through their possessions in the New World, the circulating medium of
that portion of the earth. Spanish and Mexican dollars were almost
synonymous, while the real and joe of South America was patterned after
that of Portugal, which fact can be learned in this Cabinet. As nations
decay it will be seen their coins become inevitably less trustworthy;
even a glance at the cases marked “Portugal,” “Spain,” will give this
lesson. In the Mexican collection there are issues which seem to
contradict this assertion, for the “Mexican dollar” has, for generations,
had a position in the monetary world of almost unchallenged credit, yet
not by reason of the recognition given Mexico, but because of the _United
States using it so extensively_; for, until the introduction of the
“trade dollar,” this country had _no currency_ that would meet the demand
of the Oriental market.


MEXICO.

The Mexicans use only gold and silver, and their national series is full
of tragic interest, embracing, as it does, three and a half centuries
of Mexican history, from Cortez to Maximilian. The “pillar dollar,”
“windmill dollar,” “cast dollar” (the Mexicans are the only nation that
cast money), and the “cob money” (a series so called by reason of its
clumsiness), are all to be seen in this collection.


COINS OF BRAZIL.

One coin, a gold “half-joe,” issued in 1832, with the infant head of Dom
Pedro, is very beautiful. By the side of this, in every way a contrast
to it, is a series of copper coins of a late issue with the head of the
“child” now seated on the throne. The coins of Bolivia proudly present
the bust of Simon Bolivar. Among the West Indies are many samples of “cut
money.” The law permitting money to be quartered had to be repealed,
because the traders of the West Indies made the wonderful mathematical
discovery that _five quarters_ make a whole!

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving both the eastern and the western world and their coins, there is
a single piece, of small commercial value, which is yet a light-house in
mid-ocean. This is the one cent of the Sandwich Islands, the only venture
of that kind made by the enterprising little kingdom. The inscription
is “Kamehameha III., one hundredth, Hawaii.” The name of the king being
interpreted signifies “the solitary one,” which is singularly well
adapted to the coin.


COLONIAL COINS.

In 1684, the charter of the Massachusetts Bay Company was revoked, and
the governor recalled; one of the alleged grievances by the crown was
a colonial law concerning the Mint. The currency used by the colonies
was chiefly from England, Spain, and Portugal, but the supply was
limited from these sources, and the mother-country was jealous of any
infringement of her prerogative of coinage. There are various specimens
of the “pine-tree” money of Massachusetts in the Cabinet. Some doubt has
arisen as to the species of tree intended, but it is generally accepted
as the emblematic pine. This is claimed to be about the second colonial
issue, a kind of semi-official coin. The first was from the Bermudas.[13]
It is a shilling piece, stamped by one John Hall, silversmith, of the
city of Boston, 1652, who made a very good speculation of the privilege.
There has lately been added to the Cabinet a sixpence of this rare money.
The work on this species of coins is so exceedingly simple as to present
little save a planchet. On the obverse, a double ring around a pine-tree;
legend, “Massachusetts in;” and on the reverse, a double ring also,
containing the legend, “New England An Dom.[14]”

Charles II., it appears, was easily deceived in regard to the
significance of the “pine-tree shilling.” Sir Thomas Temple, a friend
of the colonies, adroitly presented one of these obnoxious coins to the
irate monarch, explaining that the tree was the “royal oak” which had
saved his majesty’s life. Whereupon the king, laughing, denominated his
trans-Atlantic subjects “honest dogs,” and allowed the coinage to proceed.

During the reign of George I. a new species of coin was issued from the
English Mint, denomination half penny, and it is asserted upon good
authority that this was the only issue ever authorized by the home
government for general circulation in the colonies. It was a coin of
mixed metal, resembling brass. The head of the king was on the obverse;
inscription, “Georgius Rex.” The reverse, a large double rose under a
crown; legend, “Rosa Americana.” Upon a scroll, “Utile Dulci.[15]”

“Peltry,” we learn, was one of the principal articles of currency, and
was known as “pelt,” or Massachusetts currency, and was extensively used
in trading between Indians and whites, sometimes called “Beaver Money,”
“Corne, Wheate, Barley, and Rye;” and a still more quaint currency was
established, as will be found in an old Massachusetts court order, as
follows: “_It is likewise ordered that muskett balletts of a full boare
shall passe current for a farthing a peece, provided that noe man be
compelled to take above 12d. att a tyme of them._”

In Maryland, not only cattle, tobacco, and other produce was accepted
as currency, but powder and shot were also included. Lord Baltimore, in
1660, sent over to Maryland the “Baltimore” shilling. In the colonial
case there is a series of these exceedingly rare coins. They were a
shilling, sixpence, groats, and are all of the same design, differing
only in denomination. They were coined in London, and compare favorably
with any minting of that age. The bust of Lord Baltimore on the obverse
is very well cut; his name “Cecil,” is the legend. On the reverse, the
coat of arms of Cecil, Lord Baltimore, is given; this device has been
re-adopted by the State of Maryland. The substitution of any legal tender
seems to be fraught with danger, and at best is jealously scanned by
the people; and there was trouble to put this coin into circulation.
The people, though demanding coin, did not yield their old currency of
“_wheat, corn, tobacco, powder, and shot_,” without a demonstration.
The Carolinas, Virginia, and New Hampshire all followed Maryland in the
introduction of a colonial coinage.

In the interval of the Revolution, known as the Confederacy, the growth
of the spirit of independence in the people is plainly written on their
coins, especially upon their tokens or individual coins. We notice
one inscription attributed to Franklin, “_Mind your business_;” and
others, such as “_Good copper_,” “_Cut your way through_,” and like
characteristic expressions. The “New York Doubloon” was coined in 1787,
value sixteen dollars. This coin is highly esteemed by reason of its
rarity, and its market value to-day is about five hundred dollars, as
only three or four are known to be in existence.

The Washington cent of 1791 (so-called) was not a coin of the United
States, but was struck at a private mint in Birmingham, England,
(Boulton’s), partly, no doubt, to bespeak the “job,” and partly to
_please Americans_ generally.

It has been said that Washington objected to putting his head on the
coins, and it may be true; but it was also objected that no man’s head
should appear on the coin of a republic, which, whether good doctrine or
not, is still the prevailing idea. The “cent of 1791” is of two types,
one very rare and costly, with a small eagle. The other, with a large
eagle, is more common, and perhaps sells for about five dollars at a
public coin sale.


UNITED STATES COINS.

The first copper coins made by the United States Mint were one cent and
one-half cent issues, of which there were four designs: 1st, the “chain
cent;” 2d, the “wreath cent;” 3d, the “flowing hair;” and 4th, the
“liberty cap,” which was used for a number of years. The “chain” device
was not acceptable to the sensitive American mind, and of consequence the
accidental breaking of the die was not a subject of regret, but “quite
the contrary.” The pattern sections of United States coins are very
beautiful and varied, especially those in gold.


THE TRADE DOLLAR.

This coin bears on the obverse a female figure seated on bales of
merchandise, holding in her left hand a scroll on which is the word
“liberty.” At her back is a sheaf of wheat; this and the bales of goods
indicate the commercial character of the coin. Her right hand, extended,
offers the olive branch. On a scroll beneath the figure are the words “In
God we trust,” and the date below, “1873.” The reverse has a circling
inscription, “United States of America, Trade Dollar.” In the centre is
an eagle, in his claws three arrows and a sprig of olive. On a label
above are the words “E Pluribus Unum.” Below, “420 grains fine,” very
beautiful in design.


HISTORY OF THE TRADE DOLLAR.

The coinage of the Trade Dollar was authorized by act of February 12,
1873, and was not intended for circulation in the United States, but for
export to China.

It was designed to compete with the Spanish and Mexican dollar. That
empire, having no mint for the coinage of gold or silver, depended upon
foreign coin for its domestic circulation, and until the institution of
the Trade Dollar the principal shipments of coin to China were in the
form of Mexican dollars.

The Trade Dollar was made a trifle more valuable than the American and
Mexican dollar, thus not only affording a market for the surplus silver
of the mines of the Pacific Coast, but furnishing merchants and importers
from China with silver in a convenient form for payment for commodities,
instead of their being obliged to purchase Mexican dollars for that
purpose.

When its coinage was authorized it was inadvertently made a legal tender
to amount of five dollars, but this was repealed by section 2, Act of
July 22, 1876.


BRIEF HISTORY OF THE STANDARD SILVER DOLLAR.

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 416 grains,
standard silver; fineness, 892.4; equivalent to 371¼ grains of fine
silver, with 44¾ grains alloy of pure copper.

Weight changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 412½ grains, and fineness
changed to 900, preserving the same amount of pure silver = 371¼ grains,
with ⅒ alloy.

Coinage discontinued, Act of February 12, 1873.

Total amount coined, from 1792 to 1873, $8,045,838.

Coinage revived, two million dollars per month required to be coined,
and issue made legal tender for all debts, public and private, Act of
February 28, 1878.

Total amount coined, February 28, 1878, to November 1, 1884, $184,730,829.


PACIFIC COAST.

The semi-official coins of the Pacific coast present quite a glittering
array of monetary enterprise, and signify the great wealth and daring
spirit of that part of the world. The fifty-dollar octagon gold piece,
issued in 1851, is a very beautiful coin. “Gold slugs” are novelties;
are oblong gold pieces, and are valued at sixteen dollars. The Utah
coins also attract attention. They are of gold, fine. The device is an
“all-seeing eye” and two clasped hands; reverse, “a bee-hive,” with
inscription, “Holiness to the Lord.” Some have for legend, “G. S. L. C.
P. G.,” which the initiated receive as “Great Salt Lake City, Pure Gold.”

The series of the United States coins is complete, and can be readily
examined. The changes have been very gradual. The motto, “In God we
trust,” was introduced in 1866.

There is one specimen which illustrates how a coin may become famous
without the least premonition, and also is a witness of the positive
law which protects and governs coinage. A law passed Congress in 1849
ordering twenty-dollar gold pieces to be issued. One piece was struck.
Something intervened to delay the work, and the year closed; then, of
course, the dies had to be destroyed, as no more could be lawfully issued
of 1849. The coin just beside this, marked 1850, of same value, is not
worth the collector’s consideration, while “1849” cannot to be purchased.
It is marked “unique,” and is really the only one in gold. One specimen
exists in brass.


COINS OF THE SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY.

It has been said and repeated as a historical fact that the Southern
Confederacy had no metallic currency. After a lapse of eighteen years
the following official document from the Confederate archives explains
itself, and substantiates the fact that silver to a limited extent was
coined at the New Orleans Mint by order of the Confederate Government, in
the early days of the rebellion, and only suspended operations on account
of the difficulty in obtaining bullion for coinage.

                                       WAR DEPARTMENT,
                                       ADJUTANT GENERAL’S OFFICE,
                                       WASHINGTON, _March 27, 1879_.

    DR. B. F. TAYLOR, _New Orleans, La._

    DEAR SIR:—The enclosed circular will explain to you the nature
    of the duties upon which I am now engaged; I would like to have
    from you, from file with confederate archives, a letter stating
    when you were appointed Chief Coiner of the Confederate States
    Mint, instructions received copies of the originals of any
    official papers, sketches, descriptions, etc., of all the coins
    made, etc. This will make a valuable addition to Confederate
    history, and I know no one but you can give it.

                           Very truly yours,

                                                   MARCUS J. WRIGHT.

                                  NEW ORLEANS, LA., _April 7, 1879_.

    TO HON. MARCUS J. WRIGHT.

    DEAR SIR:—Your favor requesting a statement of the history of
    the New Orleans Mint, in reference to the coinage under the
    Confederate Government, is received. That institution was
    turned over by the State of Louisiana, the last of February,
    1861, to the Confederate States of America, the old officers
    being retained and confirmed by the government, viz.: Wm. A.
    Elmore, Superintendent; A. J. Guyrot, Treasurer; M. F. Bonzano,
    M. D., Melter and Refiner; and Howard Millspaugh, Assayer.
    In the month of April, orders were issued by Mr. Memminger,
    Secretary of the Treasury, to the effect that designs for
    half-dollars should be submitted to him for approval. Among
    several sent, the one approved bore on the obverse of the coin
    a representation of the Goddess of Liberty, surrounded by
    thirteen stars, denoting the thirteen States from whence the
    Confederacy sprung, and on the lower rim the figures, 1861. On
    the reverse there is a shield with seven stars, representing
    the seceding States; above the shield is a liberty-cap,
    and entwined around it stalks of sugar cane and cotton,
    “Confederate States of America.” The dies were engraved by A.
    H. M. Peterson, Engraver and Die Sinker, who is now living in
    Commercial Place. They were prepared for the coining press
    by Conrad Schmidt, foreman of the coining room (who is still
    living), from which _four pieces only_ were struck. About this
    period an order came from the secretary suspending operations
    on account of the difficulty of obtaining bullion, and the Mint
    was closed April 30, 1861.

    Of the four pieces mentioned, one was sent to the Government,
    one presented to Prof. Biddle, of the University of Louisiana,
    one sent to Dr. E. Ames of New Orleans, the remaining one being
    retained by myself. Upon diligent inquiry I am unable to find
    but one piece besides my own, that being in the possession of a
    Confederate officer of this city, who transmitted it to his son
    as a souvenir of his father’s in the Confederate cause.

    So soon as copies are made I will take pleasure in sending you
    a specimen for the archives you represent.

               Very respectfully, your obedient servant,

                                    B. F. TAYLOR, M. D.
                                    _Formerly Chief Coiner C. S. A._

The most notable and valuable silver coin is the dollar of 1804. It is
said that the scarcity of this dollar was owing to the sinking of a
China-bound vessel having on board almost the entire mintage of the 1804
dollars in lieu of the Spanish milled dollars. It is believed that there
are not more than seven, possibly eight, genuine 1804 dollars extant. The
rarity of the piece and the almost fabulous prices offered for it are
patent facts.


SKETCH OF THE 1804 DOLLAR.[16]

This coin among collectors is known as the “king of American rarities.”
But seven or eight pieces are known to exist. The 1804 dollars are of
two classes, to wit: first, originals, which are from but one obverse
and one reverse die,—draped bust of Liberty facing right; the head bound
with a fillet; hair flowing; 6 stars before and 7 behind the bust above
LIBERTY, upper right hand star almost touching letter y; reverse heraldic
eagle bearing on his breast a broad shield, in his beak a scroll,
inscribed E PLURIBUS UNUM; 12 arrows in right talon, a branch of olive
in left; above, an arc of clouds from wing to wing of eagle; in field
beneath 13 stars; UNITED STATES OF AMERICA; edge lettered ONE HUNDRED
CENTS, ONE DOLLAR OR UNIT, which are lightly struck in some parts. The
first specimen in the Mint Cabinet weighs 415.2 grs.; second, Mr. M. A.
Stickney procured from the Mint in 1843 in exchange for other coins;
third, W. S. Appleton bought, at an advance of $750, in 1868, from E.
Cogan, who purchased it from W. A. Lilliendahl, who bought it at a sale
of collection of J. J. Mickley, 1867, for $750; fourth, L. G. Parmelee
bought, at sale of E. H. Sandford’s collection, 1874, for $700, who
obtained it in 1868 from an aged lady, who got it at the Mint many years
before; fifth, W. B. Wetmore bought of Mr. Parmelee, 1868, for $600,
from sale of H. S. Adams’ collection, 1876, at $500, from sale of M. J.
Cohen’s collection, 1875, at $325 (in fair condition); sixth, present
owner unknown to us, formerly in possession of collection of Mr. Robert
C. Davis, of Philadelphia, and recently sold for $1200; seventh, S. H.
and H. Chapman purchased October, 1884, at a sale in Berlin, and resold
to a Mr. Scott, a dealer in coins, for $1000 at their Philadelphia sale,
in May, 1885.

_Restrikes._ There were struck at the Mint in 1858 restrikes with plain
edges, of which three were recovered after diligent search; two of these
were destroyed in the Mint, and the other placed in the Cabinet, where it
remains. The difference between these and the originals are as follows:
obverse, the original die was re-cut in the word LIBERTY, the stars and
date, which made them larger and deeper, especially noticeable in the
stars, which are broadened; also in the date, it making the outline sharp
and square, whereas in the originals they are somewhat rounded; reverse,
not having the original die, they used another, which differs in many
respects, most easily noticeable in that the A touches the eagle’s claw,
the OF much nearer of the end of eagle’s wing than S in States (in the
original it is equally spaced); edge, plain; weight, 381.5 grains. One
specimen is in the Mint and another in England,—struck between 1860 and
1869, as in the latter year all dies remaining were destroyed, same as
the above, but endeavors were made to letter the edges in the absence of
a complete collar by using pieces of collars which did not contain all
the letters, but repeated some of them several times. There was one of
these pieces sold in the Berg collection in 1883 for $740, and showed all
the peculiarities mentioned, and its weight was said to be inaccurate.
The dies were destroyed in the winter of 1868-69. No counterfeit dies of
the 1804 dollar were ever made. After the close of each year all dies are
now destroyed.


DOUBLE EAGLE.

Among the rare coins in the Cabinet at the Mint is a Double Eagle. The
dies for this piece were made in 1849, and only one was struck. “UNIQUE”
and beyond price. There is also a Quarter Eagle of 1842, and the only one
known extant at the Mint.




SELECTIONS.


Having referred many times to this case, it may be as well to append the
entire list of its contents, as they, almost without exception, are rare,
spanning the world from remotest antiquity to the present day, beginning
with the gold Daric of Darius, and ending with the twenty-mark piece of
Kaiser William.


GREECE.

1. Four drachma, Athens, B. C. 500; 2. Oboloi of Athens; 3. One-half
obolos, 1⅓ of a cent; 4. Daric, Darius, of Persia, B. C. 520, value, five
dollars and fifty cents; 5. Silver Daric; 6. Brass Ob. Berenice, B. C.
284; 7. Ptolemy and Berenice, copy; 8. Maneh of Ptolemy Philadelphus,
B. C. 284, value, $17.70; 9. Drachma, Cyrene, B. C. 322; 10. Coin of
Syracuse, copy, about B. C. 300; 11. Silver coin, Bactria, B. C. 126; 12.
Brass of Bactria, B. C. 180; 13. Cleopatra, B. C. 30; 13_a_. Denarius of
Cleopatra and Mark Antony; 14. Alexander the Great, B. C. 36; 15. Philip,
B. C. 323; 16. Stater of Seleucus; 17. Alexander Balas, B. C. 150; 18.
Antiochus VI; 19. Philip, King of Syria, B. C. 93.


ROME.

20. Roman aes, B. C. 500; 21. Denarius of Augustus, B. C. 31; 22.
Tiberius, A. D. 14; 23. Simon, Bar Cochab, false Christ, A. D. 133; 24.
Vespasian, A. D. 49; 25. Gold bezants, A. D. 610; 26. Justinian, A. D.
527; 26_a_. Kingdom of Cyprus and Jerusalem, Peter 1, 1361 to 1372,
testoon, Kingdom of Jerusalem; 26_b_. Amaury II., 1194 to 1205.


ENGLISH.

27. Gold of Britain; 28. Carausius, Roman Emperor of Britain, A. D.
287; 29. Penny of Ethelbert, King of Kent, 858 A. D.; 30. Harold the
Dane, A. D. 1036; 31. William the Conqueror, 1066, A. D.; 32. Edward the
Confessor, A. D. 1041; 33. Robert the Bruce, A. D. 1306; 34. Elizabeth,
Double Ryal, A. D. 1558; 35. James I, 1603, Ryal (30 shillings) and
sovereign; 36. Charles I, sovereign; 37. Siege pound of Charles I, 1642;
37_a_. Gold sovereign of Oliver Cromwell; 38. Crown, and half crown and
shilling, Oliver Cromwell, 1658; 38_a_. Farthing, Queen Anne; 39. George
IV; 40. Coins of Australia.


FRANCE.

41. Deniers of Charlemagne, 806; 42. Medalet, Marie Antoinette; 43. Five
francs, Napoleon I; 44. Gold, Napoleon I, 1851; 45. Five francs, Paris
Commune.


GERMANY.

46. Bracteats; 47. German Crown, Ob. St. Stephen; 48. Ducat, Ob. Luther
and Melanchthon, 1730; 49. Crown, Maximilian, A. D. 1615; 50. Ducat,
Nuremburg; 51. Ducat Hamburg; 52. Monument, Bavaria; 53. King’s family,
Bavaria; 54. Coins of Prussia; 55. Silver piece, Frederick William and
Augusta.


SPAIN.

56. Ferdinand and Isabella; 57. Charles II., Spain; 58. Alphonso, Spain.


ITALY.

59. Silver of Venice under the Doges, twelfth century; 60. Ducat of
Venice; 61. Copper of San Marino; 62. Silver piece of Lombardy; 63. Gold
twenty lira piece; 64. Swiss crown, ob. St. Vincent; 65. African shell
money; 66. African ring money.


ORIENTAL.

67. Siamese coins; 68. Chinese tael; 69. Widow’s mite; 70. Jewish shekel;
70_a_. Herod the Great, 37 B C.; 70_b_. Herod Archelaus, 4 B. C.; 71.
Glass coin, Egypt; 72. Gold of Alnaser, A. D. 1222; 73. Dirhem of Mahomet
V., A. D. 854; 74. Dirhem of Walid, Caliph of Damascus, A. D. 713; 75.
Haroun Alraschid, Koran text, 806; 76. Fire Worshippers, A. D. 300; 77.
Gold of Japan, 1634; 78. Gravel stone of Burmah; 79. Late coin of Turkey;
80. Mexican dollar used in China; 81. Coin of Cochin China.

The most notable coin in this case, and perhaps the most celebrated coin
in the world, is the “Widow’s Mite.” Its name bespeaks its commercial
insignificance. Yet visitors every day, upon entering the Cabinet of the
Mint, ask first to see the “Widow’s Mite.”

The following letter from Wm. E. Du Bois, will be found of interest to
the reader.


THE WIDOW’S MITE.

    SIR: The curators of the mint cabinet do not consent to the
    intimation in a statement recently made that their widow’s mite
    is not the real coin.

    The expression of a doubt as to any received fact is thought
    to be a sign of superior insight. Hence we have so much
    “destructive criticism,” a good deal of it being fatal to the
    critic himself.

    The widow’s mite in our showcase of specialties, always
    attracting much attention, is precisely what the Scriptures
    speak of—a _lepton_, the smallest of Greek and Syriac coins.
    The name comes from _leptos_, very small. The word “mite” is
    English, and was formerly a weight representing the twentieth
    part of a grain, but has long fallen into disuse. It was
    employed in the translation of the New Testament to represent
    the word _lepton_, simply because it was so very small.

    It is pretty certain that there was no Jewish or Hebrew coin
    so small as the _lepton_; that people depended very much upon
    outside coins for their circulation. Even their money terms
    had changed to those of the Syrian-Greek Empire and of Rome,
    as we see from all the instances in the New Testament. What
    few copper or bronze pieces they had, struck by local princes
    for a limited time, and now very rare, were large enough to
    bear a show of devices and inscriptions, for which the _lepton_
    was too minute. The one in our cabinet has a diameter of only
    three-tenths of an inch, and weighs but ten grains. On one side
    nothing is discernible, on the other a mint monogram, such as
    were common in that era, occupies the space. It is much like
    the letter x, with a line crossing it near the top. Whether it
    is Samaritan, or Syriac, or Greek, we cannot be sure; nor is
    it of any consequence. It is enough to show that it is a coin,
    and belongs to the age shortly before and after the advent of
    Christ, and its size proves it to be a _lepton_.

    It is an interesting and confirmatory fact, that this piece
    was found among the rubbish of the Temple grounds, by Dr.
    Barclay, long resident in Jerusalem, and author of “The City of
    the Great King.” By him it was presented to the mint cabinet.
    The objector may soberly doubt whether this was one of the
    identical mites offered by the widow; for the rest of his
    doubts they are of no value.

    We are often asked how much this famous offering amounted to?
    There is some obscurity and confusion about their coin-tables,
    and, therefore, some variety in the estimation. We may say,
    however, that the current value of the _lepton_, or mite, was
    about one-fifth of a cent in our money; being eighty to the
    drachma or denarius, which was 16 or 15 cents.

    But as the purchasing or paying power of a drachma was probably
    as great in that day and country as a dollar is in ours, we
    may say that the value of a lepton, judged by our ideas, was
    about one cent. As the treasurer would not take a less gift
    than two _lepta_, it follows that the poor but very liberal
    woman contributed fully two cents, which is more than some
    persons—neither poor nor in widowhood—throw into the church
    basket.

    It is worth while to add that a visitor at the mint saw a
    similar piece in Jerusalem, and tried to obtain one, but on
    account of its rarity did not succeed.

                                                            W. E. D.


DONATIONS OF OLD COINS.

_Extract from the American Journal of Numismatics, April, 1884._

    Under the head of donations, we have from Quartermaster General
    Meigs, a half-dollar and pistareen of Carolus and Johana of
    Spain. These pieces were presented to General Meigs at Corpus
    Christi, Texas, in 1870. The special interest attached to them,
    is their having been found on the beach of Padre Island, off
    the southerly coast of Texas. The supposition is that they were
    washed up from a sunken treasure ship wrecked on the coast,
    while carrying funds to the Army of Cortez, who entered the
    City of Mexico in 1519. Their good condition may warrant our
    accepting this briny romance _Cum grano salis_. Antiquarian
    stories must expect to stand the test of the chemist, as
    well as of the historian. This reminds me, however, of some
    specimens of the Mint Cabinet, from the wreck of the San Pedro,
    some account of which may not be uninteresting here.[17] “Early
    in 1815, a naval armament was fitted out in Spain, by Ferdinand
    VII., for the purpose of reducing the Rebellious Colonies in
    South America. The military force of this expedition amounted
    to ten thousand men, of whom two thousand were on board the
    flag ship “San Pedro.” The vessel was also freighted to a large
    amount with gunpowder, cannon balls and specie.”

    The account then goes on to state that the fleet touched at the
    Island of Marguerita near the coast of Venezuela. After leaving
    the island, the vessel took fire, burnt four hours until the
    magazine caught and exploded, and the wreck went down with four
    hundred men. The right of working the wreck, was granted about
    thirty years after, to a Baltimore Company, known as the “San
    Pedro Company.” Divers were set to work, and the wreck found in
    sixty feet of water on a hard bed of coral. Over this there was
    a deposit of mud, and again over this a layer of coral, which
    had to be pierced to arrive at the treasure.

    The Spanish dollars recovered were sent to Philadelphia, and
    (up to September, 1848) about seventy-five thousand dollars had
    been recovered and re-coined. The dollars were much corroded
    and encrusted, the coating having first to be removed, to
    bring the pieces into fit condition for minting; the loss from
    corrosion was considerable; one dollar with the impression
    still visible, being reduced to thirty-four cents in value. In
    the light of these and other facts, it is difficult to conceive
    how the pieces found in Texas, could have come so clean from
    their reputed berth, of over three hundred years, but they are
    worth keeping for all that, and General Meigs has the thanks of
    the Republic for them.




COLONIAL COINAGES.

[Illustration: PLATE I.

NOVA CONSTELLATIO “QUINT.” 1783.

NOVA CONSTELLATIO “MARK.” 1783.

NOVA CONSTELLATIO, IMMUNE COLUMBIA.

SOMMER ISLAND SHILLING. “HOGGIE.”

NEW JERSEY IMMUNIS.

CONFEDERATIO INIMICA, ETC.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE II.

CONNECTICUT CENT, 1787.

NEW ENGLAND ELEPHANT TOKEN. VERY RARE. 1694.

GOOD SAMARITAN SHILLING, MASS.

MASSACHUSETTS HALF CENT. 1787.

MASSACHUSETTS CENT.

NEW YORK.

See description.]


NOVA CONSTELLATIO.

Obverse: An eye, the center of a glory, thirteen points cross,
equidistant; a circle of as many stars. Legend: “NOVA CONSTELLATIO.”

Reverse: “U. S. 500” inscribed in two lines, a wreath surrounding.
Legend: “LIBERTAS JUSTITIA 1783.” Border, beaded; edge, leaf work. Known
as the “Quint.”

No. 2.—Obverse: An eye, around which a narrow, plain, circular field;
outside a glory, thirteen points cross, equidistant; a circle of as many
stars. Legend: “NOVA CONSTELLATIO.”

Reverse: “U. S. 1000” inscribed in two lines, a wreath surrounding.
Legend: “LIBERTAS JUSTITIA 1783.” Border, a wreath of leaves; edge, leaf
work; silver; size, 21; weight, 270 grains. Known as the “Mark.”


THE IMMUNE COLUMBIA.

Obverse: An eye, on a small, plain, circular field; from the outside
of the field radiates a glory of thirteen blunt points, crossing,
equidistant, the spaces between as many stars in a circular
constellation. Legend: “NOVA CONSTELLATIO.” Border, serrated.

Reverse: The Goddess of Liberty, seated upon a paneled cubic pedestal,
facing right; her left hand is well extended and balances the scales of
justice. A short liberty staff, crowned with a cap and bearing a flag,
rests against her right shoulder, and is supported by the right hand.
Legend: “IMMUNE COLUMBIA.” Exergue: the date 1785. Border, serrated;
edge, plain or milled; size, 17; weight, gold, 128.8 grains; silver, 92
grains; copper 148 grains.


BERMUDA SHILLING—(“HOGGE-PENNY”).

Obverse: Device—A hog, standing, facing left, above which are displayed
the Roman numerals “XII.,” the whole surrounded by a beaded circle.
Legend: “SOMMER ISLANDS” around which is a beaded circle like that
enclosing the device.

Reverse: Device—A full-rigged ship under sail to the left, a flag flying
from each of her four masts—enclosed in a beaded circle, the beads larger
than on the obverse. Copper; size, 19; weight, 177 grains.


NEW JERSEY IMMUNIS.

Obverse: Goddess of Liberty, seated upon a globe, facing right; in her
extended left hand the scales of justice; right hand staff of liberty
bearing a flag and crowned with a cap. Legend: “IMMUNIS COLUMBIA.”
Exergue: “1786.” Border, serrated; edge, plain; size, 18; weight, 160
grains.

Reverse: A shield argent, six pales gules, a chief azure. Legend: “E
PLURIBUS UNUM.” Border, serrated; edge, plain; size, 18; weight, 160
grains.


CONFEDERATIO AND INIMICA TYRANNIS.

Obverse: A circular central field, size 6, covered with a cluster of
thirteen small stars; around this device a glory of fine rays, presenting
a corrugated outline of sixteen points. Legend: “CONFEDERATIO 1785.”
Border, serrated.

Reverse: An Indian, standing beside an altar or pedestal, his right foot
upon a crown, an arrow in his right hand, a bow in his left; at his back
a quiver full of arrows. Legend: “INIMICA TYRANNIS AMERICA.” Border,
serrated; edge, plain; size, 18; weight, 112 grains.


CONNECTICUT CENT, 1788.

Obverse: Identical with one of 1787.

Reverse: The same as one of the coins of Vermont. Another Connecticut
coin of this year, has the same reverse as the “GEORGIVS III REX” issue
of Machin & Co., from the mint established by them in the State of New
York.

NOTE.—The obverse and reverse dies of the Connecticut cents are too
numerous to mention, there being no less than one hundred and sixty-four
of the first, and eighty-four of the latter.


NEW ENGLAND TOKEN.

Obverse: Same as that of the common type of the Carolina Token of 1694,
and from the same die as that and the “London Halfpenny.”

Reverse: An inscription, in five lines, occupying the whole field, “GOD
PRESERVE NEW ENGLAND 1694.” Borders, milled; edge, plain; copper; size,
18½; weight, 133 and 236 grains.


GOOD SAMARITAN SHILLINGS.

The same general type and variety as the Pine Tree Shilling, but bearing
upon the obverse a well-executed device, illustrating the parable of
the Good Samaritan; but two or three specimens of this coin have been
known, two of which are in existence and of unique varieties; they are
supposed to have been pattern pieces, struck at the origin of the Mint of
Massachusetts Colony.

[Illustration: PLATE III.

LARGE PATTERN CENT. NOT ISSUED.

BAR CENT. VERY RARE.

FUGIO. “MIND YOUR BUSINESS.” FIRST.

INIMICA TYRANNIS AMERICANA.

FUGIO. “MIND YOUR BUSINESS.” SECOND.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE IV.

HALF CENT. 1836.

CONFEDERATE C. S. A. HALF DOLLAR.

HALF CENT. 1840.

HALF CENT. 1845.

“JEFFERSON HEAD” CENT.

HALF CENT. 1846.

See description.]


MASSACHUSETTS HALF CENT, 1787.

Obverse: Same general description as the Cent of 1787.

Reverse: Same in general as the Cent of 1787, except that the shield upon
some specimens, bears only “HALF CENT.” Borders, milled; edge plain;
size, 15 to 15½; weight, 75 to 83 grains.

The “Cent,” 1788. Twelve Types. Thirteen Varieties.


MASSACHUSETTS CENT, 1788.

Obverse: A clothed Indian, standing, facing left, in his right hand a
bow, in his left an arrow. Legend: “COMMONWEALTH.”

Reverse: A spread eagle, a broad shield upon his breast, six pales gules
(upright), a chief azure (open or plain). Upon the chief, or upper part
of the shield, the word “CENT,” in bold Roman lettering. In exergue,
beneath a heavy horizontal bar, the date 1787. Borders, milled; edge,
plain; size, 16½ to 19; weight, 146 to 165 grains.


FUGIOS OR FRANKLIN CENTS.

The Fugios or Franklin Cents are the earliest coins issued by authority
of the United States. They being all dated 1787, and made in conformity
with resolution of Congress, dated July 6, 1787:

“_Resolved_, That the Board of Treasury direct the contractor for the
copper coinage to stamp on one side of each piece the following devices,
viz.: Thirteen circles linked together, a small circle in the middle,
with the words ‘UNITED STATES’ round it, and in the centre the words, ‘WE
ARE ONE’; on the other side of the same piece the following device, viz.:
a dial with the hours expressed on the face of it; a meridian sun above,
on one side of which is to be the word ‘FUGIO,’ and on the other the year
in figures ‘1787’; below the dial the words ‘MIND YOUR BUSINESS.’”


THE BAR CENT, OR U S A COPPER.

This coin, presumed to have belonged to the same issue as the Nova
Constellatio Coppers, was probably made in Birmingham, England, by
Thomas Wyon, for circulation in America. The “U S A” Copper was first
passed as money in the City of New York, in November, 1785. The device
was taken from an old Continental button, to which fact and the light
weight of the piece, has been attributed the disfavor shown the coinage
and the limited circulation given the same.

Obverse: Large Roman “U S A” in a monogram, on a plain field.

Reverse: Thirteen horizontal bars. Border, serrated; Edge, plain; size,
15½; weight, 85 grains. Two pairs of dies.


MARYLAND PENNY.

The Maryland Penny. One Type. One Variety. Unique.

Obverse: Similar to that of the sixpence.

Reverse: A Ducal Coronet, upon which are erected two masts, each bearing
a flying pennant. Legend: “DENARIVM TERRE-MARIÆ.” Copper; size, 13.

The only specimen of this piece extant was imported into America from
England, at a cost of £75, and was sold for $370 with the collection of
J. J. Mickley, Esq., of Philadelphia.


ROSA AMERICANA HALF-PENNY, 1722.

Obverse: Laureated head of King George I, facing right. Legend: “GEORGIUS
DEI GRATIA REX.”

Reverse: A full double rose; from this project five barbed points.
Legend: “ROSA AMERICANA UTILE DULCI 1722” which encircles the piece.
Border, beaded; edge, plain; “Bath Metal;” size, 16 to 18; weight, 139
grains.

Devices: Same as those of the Penny of this coinage. Legends: Same import
as those upon the Penny, but varied by abbreviations and in punctuation.
Border, beaded; edge, plain; “Bath Metal;” size, 13 to 14; weight, 75
grains.


LIBER NATUS LIBERTATEM DEFENDO—_First_.

Reverse: Arms of the State of New York. Upon an oval shield at the center
is shown the sun rising from behind a range of hills, the sea in the
foreground; left of the shield, Justice, with sword and scales; right,
Liberty, with staff and cap. Upon a hemisphere, above the shield, stands
an eagle, wings outspread, facing right. Exergue: 1787; beneath this,
next the border, “EXCELSIOR.” Border, serrated; edge, plain; size, 17;
weight, 157 grains.

[Illustration: PLATE V.

MARYLAND PENNY.

HALF CENT. 1847.

ROSA AMERICANA HALF PENNY. 1722.

LIBER NATUS LIBERNATUM DEFENDO. FIRST.

GRANBY OR HIGLEY TOKEN. 1737.

LIBER NATUS LIBERNATUM DEFENDO. SECOND.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE VI.

WASHINGTON CENT. 1783.

WASHINGTON LIVERPOOL HALF PENNY. 1793.

“NAKED BUST.” WASHINGTON CENT. 1792.

NON DEPENDENS STATUS.

HALF CENT. 1842.

PATTERN CENT. 1792.

See description.]


LIBER NATUS LIBERTATEM DEFENDO.—_Second._

Obverse: An Indian, standing, crowned with feathers, and facing left; in
his right hand he wields a tomahawk, his left supports a bow, the end of
which rests on the ground near his feet; over his right shoulder appears
the top of a quiver of arrows, which is borne upon his back. Legend:
“LIBER NATUS LIBERATEM DEFENDO.”

Reverse: A hemisphere of the globe, marked by longitudinal and meridianal
lines; upon this stands a large heavy-bodied eagle, wings spread,
somewhat drooping, beak toward the right. Legend: “NEO-EBORACUS 1787
EXCELSIOR.” Border, serrated; edge, plain; size, 17; weight, 153 grains.


GRANBY OR HIGLEY TOKEN, 1737.

Obverse: A deer, standing, facing left, occupying the whole field.
Legend: “VALVE ME AS YOU PLEASE.” Exergue: The Roman numerals III upon a
small scroll; a little crescent is shown below.

Reverse: Three hammers, each bearing a crown upon the head. Legend: “I AM
GOOD COPPER 1737.”


WASHINGTON CENT, 1783.

Obverse: Large laureated bust of Washington, draped, facing left. Legend:
“WASHINGTON & INDEPENDENCE 1783.”

Reverse: A figure of a female, facing left, seated upon a rock; right
hand holds an olive branch; left, staff of liberty, with cap. Legend:
“UNITED STATES.” Exergue: T. W. I. E. S. Border, beaded; edge, plain;
size, 17½; weight, 120 grains. Two obverse and three reverse dies.


WASHINGTON LIVERPOOL HALF-PENNY.

Obverse: Bust of Washington, in uniform, facing left, hair in a queue.
Legend: “WASHINGTON PRESIDENT.”

Reverse: A ship, under sail, to the right: Legend: “HALFPENNY” under the
ship, waves, and in the foreground, on a panel, the date 1793. Border,
milled; edge, lettered: “PAYABLE IN ANGLESEY LONDON OR LIVERPOOL.” Size,
19; weight, 163 grains.


WASHINGTON NAKED BUST CENT, 1792.

Obverse: A classical bust of Washington, undraped, facing right; the head
is encircled by a fillet, confining the hair, which is cut short and is
curly; the fillet is tied at the back of the head by a bow knot with long
pendent ends. Legend: “WASHINGTON PRESIDENT 1792.”

Reverse: A small eagle, displayed, wings upraised; on his breast a shield
argent, six pales gules; right talon, an olive branch, fourteen leaves,
six berries; left talon, thirteen arrows; about the head of the eagle are
six mullets, and above is the word “CENT.” Border, milled; edge, plain,
or inscribed: “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” Size, 19; weight, 198 grains.
Some six or eight specimens only are known.


NON DEPENDENS STATUS.

Obverse: A full bust, facing right; flowing hair to the shoulders. Upon
the drapery of the bust a small oval shield as an epaulet, emblazoned
with a staff bearing a flag; across the staff, saltierwise, rests a naked
sword. In each angle of this device is displayed a fleur de lis. Upon the
breast of the bust is a head with spreading wings. Legend: “NON-DEPENDENS
STATUS.”

Reverse: An Indian, seated upon a globe, facing left; nude, except a cap
or bandeau upon his head, and a feather tunic around the lower part of
the body. In his extended right hand he holds a bunch of tobacco; the
left reaches behind him and rests upon a shield, bearing the same emblems
displayed upon the epaulets upon the bust on the obverse. Legend: “AMER
ICA,” divided by the figure of the Indian. Exergue: 1778. Border, plain;
edge plain; size, 19.

Some coin dealers advertise the Non Dependens Status as “a rare copper,
worth $100.”


PATTERN CENT, 1792.

Obverse: A bust of Liberty, facing to right, the hair confined by a
fillet. Above is inscribed the word “LIBERTY,” and beneath the date
“1792.”

Reverse: A portion of a globe, on which stands an eagle, with raised
wings. Legend: “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” This cent has a grained edge,
like the cents of 1793. Some numismatists give it the preference as the
first cent.


GEORGE CLINTON COPPER, 1787.

The George Clinton Copper has the bust of Governor Clinton facing right,
with legend “GEORGE CLINTON.”

Reverse: The State arms of New York, and in the exergue, “1787
EXCELSIOR.” This last reverse is found also combined with the Liber
Natus, which has an Indian standing, facing left, with tomahawk in the
right hand and bow in the left, a bundle of arrows also at his back.
Legend: “LIBER NATUS LIBERTATEM DEFENDO.” This latter obverse is also
found combined with another reverse, as follows: An eagle stands upon a
section of the globe. Legend: “NEO EBORACUS 1787 EXCELSIOR.”

[Illustration: PLATE VII.

GEORGE CLINTON COPPER. 1787.

KENTUCKY TOKEN.

IMMUNIS COLUMBIA. 1787.

MASSACHUSETTS PINE TREE SHILLING. 1652.

CHAIN CENT. 1793.

MYDDELTON TOKEN.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE VIII.

GREEK EGYPTIAN COIN. PTOLEMÆUS SOTER. 285-300 B. C.

ROMAN COIN. FAUSTINA, DAUGHTER OF ANTONINUS PIUS, WIFE OF MARCUS
AURELIUS. DIED, 175 A. D.

MACEDONIAN SILVER COIN. ALEXANDER THE GREAT. 300 YEARS B. C.

SILVER SHEKEL OF JUDEA. SIMON MACCABEES. 145 B. C.

PERSIAN SILVER COIN. VOLOGESES III. 148-190 A. D.

JUDEAN COPPER COIN. SIMON MACCABEES. 145 B. C.

See description.]


KENTUCKY TOKEN OR CENT

Has a hand holding a scroll inscribed “Our Cause is Just.” Legend:
“UNANIMITY IS THE STRENGTH OF SOCIETY.” Reverse: A radiant pyramid,
triangular in shape, of fifteen stars united by rings, each star having
placed in it the initial of a State, Kentucky being at the top. Legend:
“E PLURIBUS UNUM.”


SHEKEL (SIMON MACCABEES).

The Shekel was originally a weight. The first form in which money
was used by the Jews, and by all other nations of which we have any
knowledge, was the pieces without any regular shape or any marks or
devices upon them. Precious metals passed by weight. Thus it is said of
the purchase made by Abraham of the cave and field of Machpelah, “And
Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver,
which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth, four hundred
shekels of silver, current with the merchant.” Gen. xxiii. 16.

The weight of a shekel was a little less than one-half an ounce troy.
The term “current with the merchant,” probably refers to the purity of
the silver, which was about ninety-five per cent. fine, and the value in
our money was fifty-eight cents. It first appeared as a coin in the time
of the Maccabees, who lived about 140 B. C. The amount of silver in the
coin is the same as was contained in the piece of silver denominated a
shekel. It will be seen that on one side is the golden cup that had manna
(see Exod. xvi. 33, and Heb. ix. 4), with the inscription in old Hebrew
character, “SHEKEL OF ISRAEL;” on the other side appears Aaron’s rod that
budded with the legend in the same character, “JERUSALEM THE HOLY.” This
specimen is in the Mint cabinet; one of the most rare and interesting
coins in the collection.


IMMUNIS COLUMBIA, 1787.

Obverse: The Goddess of Liberty, seated upon a globe, facing right; in
her fully extended left hand she balances the scales of justice; the
right hand supports a liberty staff, bearing a flag and crowned with a
cap. Legend: “IMMUNIS COLUMBIA.” Exergue: 1787.

Reverse: An eagle, displayed; right talon, an olive branch, thirteen
leaves; left talon, thirteen arrows. Legend: “E PLURIBUS UNUM.” Borders,
serrated; edge, plain; size, 16½; weight, 135 grains.


MASSACHUSETTS PINE TREE SHILLING.

“John Hull and Robert Saunderson were equal officers in the ‘gainful
business’ of the Mint. How much they coined in all for the colony, or
the exact amount of their profits under the contract they carried out,
cannot be determined.” The coinage was certainly large in amount, and
they, as was well understood, became men of wealth and substance. When
the daughter of John Hull was married to Judge Samuel Sewall, the founder
of the town of Newbury, Mass., the prosperous mint-master gave the bride
a dowery of her weight in silver. At the conclusion of the wedding
ceremony, a large steel-yard was brought into the room, and the blushing
bride placed upon one of the platforms of the same, while into a tub upon
the other side were poured the Pine Tree Shillings, until the steel-yard
balanced.


CHAIN CENTS.

These have a bust with flowing hair, looking right, with the date below
and word “LIBERTY” above it; on the reverse side, in the centre, is “ONE
CENT,” with “⅟₁₀₀” below it, enclosed in an endless chain of fifteen
links, typifying the number of States then in the Union. The legend is
“UNITED STATES OF AMERICA” in all excepting one die, which reads “UNITED
STATES OF AMERI,” the engraver evidently not having room to complete the
word.


THE MYDDELTON TOKENS.

Obverse: A figure, representing Hope, beside an anchor; she presents two
children to a female, the last extending her right hand in reception of
the charge; the left hand supports a liberty staff, which is crowned with
a cap; in front of the figure with the staff is an olive branch and a
wreath, to the rear a cornucopia. Legend: “BRITISH SETTLEMENT KENTUCKY.”

Reverse: Britannia, seated disconsolate amid the down-cast emblems of her
power, and facing left; her head is bowed; she holds in her right hand
an inverted spear, the head of which penetrates the ground; at her right
side a bundle of fasces or lictors’ rods have fallen near the cap of
Liberty; upon the ground, before the figure, are the scales of justice,
upon which Britannia has set her left foot and the sword of justice,
with broken blade; the left arm of the figure rests upon a large shield,
bearing the cross of the British ensigns. Legend: “PAYABLE BY P. P. P.
MYDDELTON.”

[Illustration: PLATE IX.

HALF CENT. 1802.

WREATH CENT. 1793.

HALF CENT. 1794.

WASHINGTON MEDAL. 1789.

HALF CENT. 1847.

NEW YORK CENT.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE X.

GREEK EGYPTIAN COIN. PTOLEMY.

WIDOW’S MITE. COPPER COIN.

ROMAN BRONZE COIN. TRAJAN AUGUSTUS. 98-117 A. D.

ANTIOCHUS EPIPHANES.

COUNTERFEIT JUDEAN SHEKEL. DATING ABOUT THE TIME OF CHRIST.

MACEDONIAN COIN. PHILIP III. 317-324 B. C.

See description.]


THE SMALL PATTERN CENT.

Obverse: A head, facing right, hair unconfined, floating backward in
flowing locks. Legend: “LIBERTY PARENT OF SCIENCE & INDUST.” Exergue:
Beneath the head the date 1792.

Reverse: A wreath, two olive branches crossed at the lower ends and tied
with a ribbon; within the wreath a field bearing an inscription “ONE
CENT” in two lines. Legend: “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” Exergue: “⅟₁₀₀.”
Border, milled; edge, reeded; size, 14; weight, 65 grains. Extremely rare.


THE DOUBLE HEAD WASHINGTON.

A small head on both obverse and reverse. The former has the legend,
“WASHINGTON;” the latter the legend “ONE CENT.” No date.


NEW YORK WASHINGTON CENT.

Bust of Washington with a wig, and with military draping, face right.
Legend: “NON VI VIRTUTE VICI.”

Reverse: The Goddess of Liberty, seated, with liberty pole and scales of
justice. Legend: “NEO EBORACENSIS.” Date, 1786.


CAROLINA ELEPHANT (TOKEN.)

A token much prized by collectors is known as the Carolina Elephant. The
obverse is from a rather common English token known now as the London
Elephant. The animal is standing with his head down. There is no legend.

Reverse: “GOD PRESERVE CAROLINA AND THE LORDS PROPRIETERS 1694.”


COPPER HALF-CENT OF 1794.

In 1794 and 1795 similar device to that of 1793; but face Liberty facing
to the right. Weight, 104 grains.


CENT, 1799.

The liberty cap is omitted, as is the lettering on the edge, not to
reappear on the American cent. Liberty Cap Cents are very rare.

In the year 1798 a slight change was made in the obverse of the cent,
giving some of the curls a different termination from those of 1796,
1797, and the early part of 1798. The latter device was continued each
year, until and including 1807. The reverse remained unchanged during
the same time, excepting some slight variations, probably unintentional,
if not positive mistakes. For instance, in 1797 and 1802 we find some
without stems to the wreaths, and in one case only one stem. In 1801 and
1802 some have ⅟₀₀₀ instead of the fraction ⅟₁₀₀. In addition to this
error, a variety of the cent of 1802 has “Iinited,” instead of “United.”
In 1796 we have in one instance “Liherty,” instead of “Liberty.”


LIBERTY CENT, 1809.

In 1809 an obverse head of Liberty; forehead encircled by a band,
“LIBERTY” inscribed upon it, surrounded by thirteen stars. Exergue:
“1809.”

Reverse: Wreath in a circular garland inclosing the words “ONE CENT.” No
change took place during the issues of 1808 to 1814, inclusive.


HALF-CENT OF 1793.

The first half-cent was issued in 1793, having on obverse: Bust of
Liberty, facing to the left; staff surmounted by liberty-cap over right
shoulder. Legend: “LIBERTY.” Exergue: “1793.”

Reverse; Inscription, “HALF CENT,” surrounded by a wreath, tied with a
ribbon. Weight, 132 grains.


WREATH CENT.

Obverse: Bust of Liberty, hair flowing. Legend: “LIBERTY.” Exergue:
“1793.”

Reverse: A wreath with berries, the stems of wreath tied in a bow with
a ribbon. Inscription: “ONE CENT.” Legend: “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”
Exergue: “⅟₁₀₀.”

Third. Known as the “Liberty Cap Cent.”


LIBERTY AND SECURITY WASHINGTON COIN.

Obverse: A bust of Washington, in uniform, facing right, hair in a queue.
Legend: “GEORGE WASHINGTON.”

Reverse: A shield with sixteen argent and gules impaling argent, fifteen
mullets; above the shield an eagle, left talon, an olive branch, right
talon, six arrows. Legend: “LIBERTY AND SECURITY.” Exergue: “17 95,”
divided by the point of the shield. Border: A plain circle, and outside
of the same, milled edge, lettered “AN ASYLUM FOR ALL NATIONS.” Size,
20½; weight, 310 grains. This piece is extremely rare.


VIRGINIA HALF-PENNY.

The well-known Virginia half-pennies seem to have been very plentiful. A
number of different dies were used. A laureated bust of George the Third
is surrounded, as on the English half-penny, with his title, “GEORGIVS
III. REX.” The reverse has an ornamental and crowned shield, emblazoned
quarterly: 1, England empaling Scotland; 2, France; 3, Ireland; 4, the
electoral dominions. Legend: “VIRGINIA.”

[Illustration: PLATE XI.

CENT. 1809.

HALF CENT. 1793.

CHAIN CENT. 1793.

PATTERN “TWO CENT” PIECE.

CENT. 1799.

SMALL PATTERN CENT. 1792.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE XII.

DOUBLE HEAD WASHINGTON.

LIBERTY AND SECURITY WASHINGTON MEDAL. 1795.

GRANBY OR HIGLEY COPPER TOKEN.

N. Y. COLONIAL CENT. 1787.

CAROLINA ELEPHANT TOKEN. 1694.

VIRGINIA HALF CENT.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE XIII.

MEDAL OF 1776, COMMEMORATIVE OF THE NATION’S INDEPENDENCE.

“KITTANNING MEDAL,” ONE OF THE EARLIEST MEDALS EXECUTED IN AMERICA.]

[Illustration: PLATE XIV.

1795 SILVER DOLLAR. OBVERSE AND REVERSE.

1798 SILVER DOLLAR. OBVERSE AND REVERSE.]

[Illustration: PLATE XV.

ROSA AMERICANA.

MASSACHUSETTS HALF CENT.

RHODE ISLAND MEDAL.

PITT MEDAL.

IMMUNIS COLUMBIA.

NEW YORK TOKEN.

See description.]

[Illustration: PLATE XVI.

PATTERN HALF DOLLAR. 1859.

PATTERN CENT. 1854.

LIBERTY CENT. 1793.

LIBERTY HALF CENT. 1795.

PATTERN CENT, COPPER AND SILVER. 1850.

PATTERN CENT. 1855.]

[Illustration: PLATE XVII.

RARE COLONIAL CENT, OF NEW JERSEY.[18]

WASHINGTON HALF DOLLAR. 1792.

WASHINGTON CENT. 1783.

WASHINGTON CENT. 1783.

WASHINGTON CENT. VERY RARE. 1792.

WASHINGTON CENT. 1791.]

[Illustration: PLATE XVIII.

TRIBUTE MONEY.

CONSTANTINE THE GREAT.

COUNTERFEIT SHEKEL, OF EUROPEAN MANUFACTURE.

JEWISH. LEPTON, B. C.

JEWISH. LEPTON, A. D.

SYRIAN.

GRECIAN.

MAXIMUS PHILLIPUS.]

[Illustration: PLATE XIX.

DOUBLE EAGLE, 1849. “Unique,” beyond price.

GOLD DOLLAR, 1849.

DOUBLE EAGLE. 1885.

HALF EAGLE, 1849.

TEN DOLLAR EAGLE, 1795.

HALF EAGLE, 1885.

EAGLE, 1849.

HALF EAGLE, 1795.

EAGLE, 1885.

THREE DOLLARS. Gold Piece, 1885.

QUARTER EAGLE, 1847.

QUARTER EAGLE, 1885.

GOLD DOLLAR, 1885.]

[Illustration: PLATE XX.

RHODES.

ANTIOCHUS VII.

SYBARIS.

GREEK COIN. ALEXANDER THE GREAT. 300 B.C.

ATHENS.

HEROCLEA.]

[Illustration: PLATE XXI.

1804 DOLLAR, “The King among Rarities.”

PATTERN DOLLAR, None issued.

PATTERN DOLLAR OF 1871, Rejected.

PATTERN PIECE KNOWN AS THE BARBER DOLLAR, Rejected.]

[Illustration: PLATE XXII.

SILVER DOLLAR, 1849.

STANDARD DOLLAR, 1885.

HALF DOLLAR, 1849.

DIME, 1849.

HALF DOLLAR, 1885.

HALF DOLLAR, 1794.

QUARTER DOLLAR, 1885.

QUARTER DOLLAR, 1849.

HALF DIME, 1849.

DIME, 1885.

HALF DIME, 1794.

DIME, 1796.]

[Illustration: PLATE XXIII.

LIBERTY CAP CENT, 1793.

CHAIN CENT, 1793. First issue.

CHAIN CENT, 1793. Second issue.

PATTERN TWENTY CENT PIECE, Rejected.

HALF CENT, 1793.

CENT, 1849.

CENT, 1885.

THREE CENT NICKEL, 1885.

HALF CENT, 1849.

THREE CENT PIECE, 1885.]

[Illustration: PLATE XXIV.

ANTIOCHUS VII.

ADDERA.

PRUSIAS.

ANTIOCHUS VIII. EPIPHANES.

PANORMUS.

ALEXANDER THE GREAT.

Grecian Coins about 300 years B.C.]




COINS ISSUED AT THE UNITED STATES MINT AT PHILADELPHIA, FROM ITS
ESTABLISHMENT IN 1792 TO 1888.



GOLD.


_Double Eagle._

Authorized to be coined, Act of March 3, 1849. Weight, 516 grains;
fineness, 900; size, 21.

1850 to 1865, inclusive. No. 1. Obverse: Liberty head, facing left, hair
tied behind, a coronet on the forehead inscribed “LIBERTY,” thirteen
stars and date.

Reverse: An eagle with shield upon its breast, and an olive branch and
three arrows in its talons; in its beak, an elaborate scroll, inscribed
“E PLURIBUS UNUM.” Above, a circle of thirteen stars and a curved line of
rays extending from wing to wing. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” “TWENTY D.”

1866 to 1876, inclusive. No. 2, same, with the motto “IN GOD WE TRUST”
inscribed within the circle of stars on the reverse.

1877. No. 3. Same, with “TWENTY DOLLARS” for “TWENTY D.”


_Eagle._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 270 grains;
fineness, 916⅔. Weight changed, Act of June 28, 1834, to 258 grains.
Fineness changed, Act of June 28, 1834, to 899.225. Fineness changed, Act
of January 18, 1837, to 900.

1795. Obverse: Liberty head, wearing a cap, facing right. Fifteen stars.
Above, “LIBERTY;” beneath, “1795;” size, 21.

Reverse: An eagle with displayed wings, standing on a palm branch; in
beak, a laurel wreath. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”

1796. Same, with sixteen stars.

1797. No. 1. Same, with sixteen stars.

1797. No. 2. Obverse: Same, with sixteen stars.

Reverse: An eagle with the United States shield upon its breast, a bundle
of arrows in the right talon, and an olive branch in the left; in its
beak, a scroll inscribed “E PLURIBUS UNUM.” Around the head are sixteen
stars; above, is a curved line of clouds extending from wing to wing.
“UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”

1798 to 1801, inclusive. Same, with thirteen stars on the obverse. Of
1798, two varieties with four stars facing.

1802. None issued.

1803 and 1804. Same as No. 2 of 1797. Thirteen stars.

1805 to 1837, inclusive. None issued.

1838 to 1865, inclusive. Obverse: Liberty head facing left, hair tied
behind, a coronet on the forehead inscribed “LIBERTY,” thirteen stars,
and date.

Reverse: An eagle with the United States shield upon its breast, and an
olive branch and three arrows in the talons. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”
Size, 17.

1866. Same, with a scroll above the eagle inscribed “IN GOD WE TRUST.”


_Half Eagle._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 135 grains;
fineness, 916⅔. Weight changed, Act of June 28, 1834, to 129 grains.
Fineness changed, Act of June 28, 1834, to 899.225. Fineness changed, Act
of January 18, 1837, to 900.

1795. No. 1. Same type as the Eagle; size, 16.

1795. No. 2. Obverse: Same.

Reverse: An eagle, wings extended upwards, with the United States shield
upon its breast, a bundle of thirteen arrows in the right talon, and an
olive branch in the left. In its beak, a scroll inscribed “E PLURIBUS
UNUM.” Around the head are sixteen stars, and above is a curved line of
clouds extending from wing to wing. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”

1796. Same as No. 1 of 1795; fifteen stars on obverse.

1797. No. 1. Same as No. 1 of 1795.

1797. No. 2. Same, with sixteen stars on obverse.

1797. No. 3. Obverse: Same, with fifteen stars.

Reverse: Same as No. 2 of 1795, sixteen stars around the eagle.

1798. No. 1. Same as No. 1 of 1795, with thirteen stars.

1798. No. 2. Obverse: Same.

Reverse: Same as No. 2 of 1795, thirteen stars.

1799 and 1800. Same as No. 2 of 1795, with thirteen stars on the obverse.

1801. None issued.

1802 to 1806, inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1795, with thirteen stars on
the obverse.

1807. No. 1. Obverse: Same as No. 1, 1795, with thirteen stars.

Reverse: Same as No. 2, 1795.

1807. No. 2. Obverse: Liberty head, facing left; bust, draped, wearing a
kind of turban with a band in front inscribed “LIBERTY,” thirteen stars,
and date.

Reverse: An eagle, with the United States shield upon its breast, an
olive branch and three arrows in the talons. Above, a scroll, inscribed
“E PLURIBUS UNUM.” United States of America “5. D.”

1808 to 1812 inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1807.

1813 to 1815, inclusive. Obverse: Liberty head, facing left, wearing a
kind of turban, a band in front inscribed “LIBERTY.” Thirteen stars and
date. No shoulders.

Reverse: Same as No. 2 of 1807.

1816 and 1817, inclusive. None issued.

1818 to 1828, inclusive. Same as 1813.

1829. No. 1. Same as 1813; size, 16.

1829. No. 2. Same, but smaller; size, 15.

1830 to 1833, inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1829.

1834. No. 1. Same as No. 2 of 1829.

1834. No. 2. Obverse: Liberty head, facing left, hair confined by a band
inscribed “LIBERTY.”

Reverse: Same as No. 2 of 1807, without the motto “E PLURIBUS UNUM”
omitted; size, 14.

1835 to 1838, inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1834.

1839 to 1865, inclusive. Same type as the Eagle of 1838.

1866. Same type as Eagle of same date.


_Three-Dollar Piece._

Authorized to be coined, Act of February 21, 1853. Weight, 77.4 grains;
fineness, 900.

1854. Obverse: An Indian head, wearing a crown of eagle feathers, on band
of which is inscribed “LIBERTY”—“UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”

Reverse: “3 dollars 1854” within a wreath of corn, wheat, cotton, and
tobacco. Size, 13.


_Quarter-Eagle._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 67.5 grains;
fineness, 916⅔. Weight changed, Act of June 28, 1834, to 64.5 grains.
Fineness changed, Act of June 28, 1834, to 899.225. Fineness changed, Act
of January 18, 1837, to 900.

1796. No. 1. Obverse: Liberty head, facing right, above “LIBERTY”—sixteen
stars.

Reverse: Same type as No. 2 half-eagle of 1795, size 13.

No. 2. Same, with no stars on obverse.

1797-1798. Same as No. 1 of 1796, with thirteen stars.

1799-1801, inclusive. None issued.

1802. Same as 1798.

1803. None issued.

1804 to 1807, inclusive. Same as 1798.

1808. Same type as No. 2 half-eagle of 1807, with “2½ D.”

1809 to 1820, inclusive. None issued.

1821. Obverse: Same type as the half-eagle of 1813, size 12.

Reverse: Same type as No. 2 half-eagle of 1807.

1822 and 1823. None issued.

1824-1827, inclusive. Same as 1821.

1828. None issued.

1829 to 1833, inclusive. Same as 1821.

1834. No. 1. Same as 1821. No. 2. Same type as No. 2 half-eagle of 1834,
size 11.

1835 to 1839, inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1834.

1840 to 1865. Same type as the eagle of 1834.

1866. Same type as eagle of 1866.


_Dollar._

Authorized to be coined, Act of March 3, 1849. Weight, 25.8 grains;
fineness, 900.

1849 to 1853, inclusive. Obverse: Same type as the eagle, without date.

Reverse: “1 DOLLAR 1849” within a laurel wreath, “UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.” Size 8.

1854. No. 1, Same. No. 2. Same type as the three-dollar piece, size 9.


SILVER.


_Dollar._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 416 grains;
fineness, 892.4. Weight changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 412½ grains.
Fineness changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 900. Coinage discontinued,
Act of February 12, 1873. Coinage reauthorized, Act of February 28, 1878.

1794. Obverse: Liberty head, facing right, flowing hair, fifteen stars;
above, “LIBERTY;” beneath, “1794.”

Reverse: An eagle with raised wings, encircled by branches of laurel
crossed; “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” On the edge, “HUNDRED CENTS, ONE
DOLLAR OR UNIT.” Size, 24.

1795. No. 1. Same.

1795. No. 2. Bust of Liberty, facing right, hair bound by a ribbon,
shoulders draped, fifteen stars.

Reverse: An eagle with expanded wings, standing upon clouds, within a
wreath of palm and laurel, which is crossed and tied. “UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.”

1796. Same as No. 2, of 1795.

1797. No. 1. Same as No. 2 of 1795, with sixteen stars, six of which are
facing.

1797. No. 2. Same, with seven stars facing.

1798. No. 1. Same as No. 2 of 1795, with fifteen stars.

1798. No. 2. Same, with thirteen stars.

1798. No. 3. Obverse: Same, with thirteen stars.

Reverse: An eagle with raised wings, bearing the United States shield
upon its breast, in beak, a scroll inscribed “E PLURIBUS UNUM.” A bundle
of thirteen arrows in the right talon, and an olive branch in the left.
Above, are clouds, and thirteen stars. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” Size,
25.

1799 to 1804, inclusive. Same as No. 3, of 1798.

1805 to 1839, inclusive. None issued.

1840 to 1865, inclusive. Obverse: Liberty seated upon a rock, supporting
with her right hand the United States shield, across which floats a
scroll inscribed “LIBERTY,” and with her left the staff and liberty cap;
beneath, the date.

Reverse: An eagle with expanded wings, bearing the United States shield
upon its breast, and an olive branch and three arrows in its talons.
“UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” “ONE DOLL.” Reeded edge; size, 24.

1866 to 1873, inclusive. Same, with a scroll above the eagle, inscribed,
“IN GOD WE TRUST.”

1874 to 1877, inclusive. None issued.

1878. Obverse: Liberty head facing left, upon which is a cap, a wheat and
cotton wreath, and a band inscribed “LIBERTY;” above, “E PLURIBUS UNUM;”
beneath, the date. Thirteen stars.

Reverse: An eagle with expanded wings pointing upwards; in right talon an
olive branch with nine leaves; in the left, three arrows. In the field
above, “IN GOD WE TRUST;” beneath, a semi-wreath, tied and crossed,
reaching upwards to the wings; “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” Some pieces of
the above date (1878) were coined with eight feathers in the tail during
the year, but seven have been adopted.


_Trade Dollar._

Authorized to be coined, Act of February 12, 1873. Weight, 420 grains;
fineness, 900.

1873. Obverse: Liberty seated upon a cotton bale, facing left; in her
extended right hand an olive branch; in her left a scroll inscribed
“LIBERTY;” behind her a sheaf of wheat; beneath, a scroll inscribed “IN
GOD WE TRUST;” thirteen stars; “1873.”

Reverse: An eagle with expanded wings; in talons three arrows and an
olive branch; above, a scroll inscribed “E PLURIBUS UNUM;” beneath, on
field, “420 grains;” “900 fine.” “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” Size, 24.


_Half Dollar._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 208 grains;
fineness, 892.4. Weight changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 206¼ grains.
Fineness changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 900. Weight changed, Act
of February 21, 1853, to 192 grains. Weight changed, Act of February 12,
1873, to 12½ grammes, or 192.9 grains.

1794 and 1795. Same type as the dollar of 1794. On the edge, “FIFTY CENTS
OR HALF A DOLLAR.” Size, 21.

1796. No. 1. Same type as No. 2, dollar of 1795, with the denomination,
“½,” inscribed on the base of the reverse. No. 2. Same, with sixteen
stars on the obverse.

1797. Same as No. 2, of 1796.

1798 to 1800, inclusive. None issued.

1801 to 1803, inclusive. Same type as No. 3, dollar of 1798.

1804. None issued.

1805 and 1806. Same as No. 3, dollar of 1798.

1807. No. 1. Same.

No. 2. Obverse: Liberty head facing left, wearing a kind of turban, with
“LIBERTY” inscribed upon the band. Thirteen stars and date.

Reverse: An eagle with expanded wings pointing downwards, bearing upon
its breast, the U. S. Shield, an olive branch and three arrows in its
talons; above, in the field, a scroll inscribed “E PLURIBUS UNUM;”
beneath 50 C. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”

1808 to 1835 inclusive, same as No. 2 of 1807.

1836. No. 1. Same as No. 2 of 1807.

No. 2. Obverse: Same.

Reverse: An eagle with expanded wings pointing downwards, the U. S.
shield upon its breast, an olive branch and three arrows in its talons,
“UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,” reeded edge.

1837. Same as No. 2 of 1836.

1838. Obverse: Same as No. 2 of 1836.

Reverse: Same; “HALF DOL.” for “50 C.”

1839. No. 1. Same as 1838.

No. 2. Same type as dollar of 1840.

1840 to 1852 inclusive, same.

1853. Obverse: Same with an arrow head on each side of the date.

Reverse: Same, with a halo of rays around the edge.

1854. Same, without the rays.

1855. Same.

1856 to 1865 inclusive, same, without the arrow heads.

1866 to 1872 inclusive, same, with scroll above the eagle inscribed “IN
GOD WE TRUST.” (Some have been occasionally met with, which have been
issued by the San Francisco Mint, _without_ this legend in 1866.)

1873. No. 1. Same.

No. 2. Same, with arrow heads on each side of the date.

1874. Same.

1875. Same, without the arrow heads.


_Quarter Dollar._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 104 grains;
fineness, 892.4. Weight changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 103½ grains.
Fineness changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 900. Weight changed, Act
of February 21, 1853, to 96 grains. Weight changed, Act of February 12,
1873, to 6¼ grammes, or 96.45 grains.

1796. Same type as No. 2 dollar of 1795, with reeded edge; size, 18;
fifteen stars.

1797 to 1803. None issued.

1804 to 1807, inclusive. Same type as No. 3 dollar of 1798, beneath,
“25c.”

1808 to 1814, inclusive. None issued.

1815. Same type as No. 2 half dollar of 1807.

1816 and 1817. None issued.

1818 to 1825, inclusive. Same type as No. 2 half dollar of 1807, size 17.

1826. None issued.

1827 and 1828. Same type as No. 2 half dollar of 1807.

1829 and 1830. None issued.

1831 to 1837, inclusive. Same type as half dollar of 1807, with the
diameter reduced from size 17 to size 15, and a corresponding increase in
thickness and decrease of the size of devices, and the omission of the
scroll, inscribed “E PLURIBUS UNUM.”

1838. No. 1. Same as 1837. No. 2. Same type as the dollar of 1840, with
“QUAR. DOL.” for “ONE DOLL.”

1839 to 1852, inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1838.

1853. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Same, with arrow heads on each side of date,
and a halo of rays around the edge.

1854 and 1855. Same, without the rays.

1856 to 1865. Same, without the arrow heads.

1866 to 1872, inclusive. Same, with the scroll above the eagle, inscribed
“IN GOD WE TRUST.”

1873. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Same, with an arrow head on each side of the
date.

1874. Same.

1875. Same, without the arrow head.


_Twenty-Cent Piece._

Authorized to be coined, Act of March 3, 1875. Weight, 5 grammes, or
77.16 grains; fineness, 900. Coinage discontinued, Act of May 2, 1878.

1875 to 1878, inclusive. Obverse: Same type as the dollar of 1840.

Reverse: An eagle with displayed wings, three arrows, and an olive
branch, two of the leaves of which nearest the stem, together with those
drooping from the centre, overlap; the terminating leaves on the end of
the branch, however, do not. On each side a star. Plain edge. “UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA.” “TWENTY CENTS.” Size, 14.


_Dime._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 41.6 grains;
fineness, 892.4. Weight changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 41¼ grains.
Fineness changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 900. Weight changed, Act of
February 21, 1853, to 38.4 grains. Weight changed, Act of February 12,
1873, to 2½ grammes, or 38.58 grains.

1796. Same type as the No. 2 dollar of 1795; size 13; fifteen stars.

1797. No. 1. Same, with sixteen stars on the obverse. No. 2. Same, with
thirteen stars on the obverse.

1798. No. 1. Same type as No. 3 dollar of 1798, with sixteen stars. No.
2. With thirteen stars on the obverse.

1799. None issued.

1800 to 1805, inclusive. Same as No. 3 of 1798.

1806. None issued.

1807. Same as No. 2 of 1798.

1808. None issued.

1809. Same type as No. 2 half-dollar of 1807; size, 12.

1810. None issued.

1811. Same as 1809.

1812 to 1813, inclusive. None issued.

1814. Same as 1809.

1815 to 1819, inclusive. None issued.

1820 to 1825, inclusive. Same as 1809.

1826. None issued.

1827 to 1836, inclusive. Same as 1809.

1837. No. 1. Same as 1809. No. 2. Obverse: Liberty seated. No stars.

Reverse: “ONE DIME” within a wreath of laurel. “UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.” Size, 11.

1838. No. 1. Same as No. 2 of 1837. No. 2. Same, with thirteen stars.

1839 to 1852, inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1838.

1853. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Same, with an arrow head on each side of the
date.

1854 and 1855. Same as No. 2 of 1853.

1856 to 1859, inclusive. Same, without arrow heads.

1860 to 1872, inclusive. Obverse: Same, with “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA”
instead of stars.

Reverse: “ONE DIME” within a wreath of corn, wheat, cotton, and tobacco.

1873. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Same, with an arrow head on each side of the
date.

1874. Same as No. 2 of 1873.

1875. Same, without arrow heads.


_Half Dime._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 20.8 grains;
fineness, 892.4. Weight changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 20⅝ grains.
Fineness changed, Act of January 18, 1837, to 900. Weight changed, Act of
February 21, 1853, to 19.2 grains. Coinage discontinued, Act of February
12, 1873.

1794 and 1795. Same type as the half dollar; size, 10.

1796. Same type as No. 2 dollar of 1795; fifteen stars.

1797. No. 1. Same, with fifteen stars. No. 2. Same, with sixteen stars.
No. 3. Same, with thirteen stars.

1798 and 1799. None issued.

1800 to 1803, inclusive. Same type as No. 3 dollar of 1798.

1804. None issued.

1805. Same as 1800.

1806 to 1828, inclusive. None issued.

1829 to 1873. See dime.


_Three Cent Piece._

Authorized to be coined, Act of March 3, 1851. Weight, 12⅜ grains;
fineness, 750. Weight changed, Act of March 3, 1853, to 11.52 grains.
Fineness changed, Act of March 3, 1853, to 900. Coinage discontinued, Act
of February 12, 1873.

1851 to 1853, inclusive. Obverse: A star bearing the United States
shield. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”

Reverse: An ornamented “C,” within which is the denomination “III,”
around the border, thirteen stars; size, 9.

1854 to 1858. Obverse: Same, with two lines around the star.

Reverse: An olive branch above the “III,” and three arrows below, all
within the “C.”

1858 to 1873, inclusive. Same, with one line around the star.


MINOR COINS.


_Five cent piece. (Nickle.)_

Authorized to be coined, Act of May 16, 1866. Weight, 77.16 grains;
composed of 75 per cent. copper, and 25 per cent. nickle.

1866. Obverse: A United States shield surmounted by a cross, an olive
branch pendent at each side, back of the base of the shield are two
arrows, the heads and feathers are only visible; beneath, “1866;” above,
in the field, “IN GOD WE TRUST.”

Reverse: “5” within a circle of thirteen stars, and rays, “UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.” Size, 13.

1867. Same. No. 2. Same, without the rays.

1868. Same as No. 2 of 1867.

1869 to 1882. Same as No. 2 of 1867.

1883. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Obverse: Liberty head wearing a coronet which
is inscribed “LIBERTY,” thirteen stars, and date, “1883.”

Reverse: A “V” within a wreath of corn and cotton. Legend, “UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.” Exergue, “E PLURIBUS UNUM.” No. 3, Obverse: Same as No. 2.

Reverse: Same, with “CENTS” as the exergue, and “E PLURIBUS UNUM” above
the wreath.

1884. Same as No. 3 of the preceding.


_Three cent piece. (Nickle.)_

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 3, 1865. Weight, 30 grains;
composed of 75 per cent. copper, and 25 per cent. nickle.

1865. Obverse: Liberty head, facing left, hair bound by a ribbon, on the
forehead a coronet inscribed “LIBERTY;” beneath, the date, “UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA.”

Reverse: “III” within a laurel wreath.


_Two Cent Piece (bronze)._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 22, 1864. Weight, 96 grains,
composed of ninety-five per cent. copper and five per cent. of tin and
zinc. Coinage discontinued, Act of February 12, 1873.

1864 to 1873, inclusive. Obverse: The United States shield, behind which
are two arrows, crossed, on each side a branch of laurel; above, a scroll
inscribed “IN GOD WE TRUST”; beneath, the date.

Reverse: “2 CENTS” within a wreath of wheat. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”
Size, 14.


_Cent (copper)._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 22, 1792. Weight, 264 grains.
Weight changed, Act of January 14, 1793, to 208 grains. Weight changed
by proclamation of the President, January 26, 1796, in conformity with
an Act of March 3, 1795, to 168 grains. Coinage discontinued, Act of
February 21, 1857.

1793. No. 1. Obverse: Liberty head, facing right, flowing hair. Above,
“LIBERTY”: beneath, “1793.”

Reverse: A chain of fifteen links, within which is inscribed “ONE CENT”
and the fraction “⅟₁₀₀.” United States of America; reeded edge; size, 17.

No. 2. Same, with the abbreviation “AMERI.” in the Legend.

No. 3. Obverse: Same as No. 1, with a sprig beneath.

Reverse: “ONE CENT” within a wreath of laurel. “UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.” Reeded edge.

No. 4. Obverse: A bust of Liberty, facing right, with pole and liberty
cap. Above, “LIBERTY”; beneath, “1793.”

Reverse: Same as No. 3; on the edge, “ONE HUNDRED FOR A DOLLAR.” Size, 18.

1794 and 1795. Same as No. 4 of 1793.

1796. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Same, with hair bound by a ribbon, and without
pole and liberty cap on the obverse. Plain edge.

1797 to 1807 inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1796.

1808 to 1814, inclusive. Obverse: Liberty head, facing left, hair
confined by a band, inscribed “LIBERTY.” Thirteen stars and date.

Reverse: “ONE CENT,” within a laurel wreath. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.”
The fraction “⅟₁₀₀” is omitted.

1815. None issued.

1816. Obverse: Liberty head, facing left, the hair is confined by a
roll, and tied by a cord, while the forehead is bedecked with a tiara,
inscribed “LIBERTY.”

Reverse: Same as 1808.

1817. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Same, with fifteen stars.

1818 to 1836. Same as No. 1 of 1817.

1837. No. 1. Same. No. 2. Same, with the hair tied by a string of beads
instead of a cord.

1838 to 1857, inclusive. Same as No. 2 of 1837.


_Cent (Nickle)._

Authorized to be coined, Act of February 21, 1857. Weight 72 grains;
composed of 88 per cent. copper and 12 per cent. nickle. Coinage
discontinued, Act of April 22, 1864.

1857 and 1858, Obverse: An eagle flying to the left. “UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.”

Reverse: “ONE CENT,” within a wreath of corn, wheat, cotton, and tobacco.
Size, 11.

1859. Obverse: An Indian-head, facing left, bedecked with eagle plumes,
confined. “UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.” Beneath, the date.

Reverse: “ONE CENT.” within a wreath of laurel.

1860 to 1864, inclusive. Obverse: Same.

Reverse: “ONE CENT,” within an oak wreath and shield.


_Cent (Bronze)._

Coinage authorized, Act of April 22, 1857. Weight, 48 grains; composed of
95 per cent. copper and 5 per cent. of tin and zinc.

1864. Same type as nickle cent of 1860. Size, 12.


_Half Cent (Copper)._

Authorized to be coined, Act of April 2, 1792. Weight, 132 grains. Weight
changed, Act of January 14, 1793, to 104 grains. Weight changed by
proclamation of the President, January 26, 1796, in conformity with Act
of March 3, 1795, to 84 grains. Coinage discontinued, Act of February 21,
1857.

1793. Same type as cent No. 4, 1793, with head facing left. On the edge,
“TWO HUNDRED FOR A DOLLAR.” Size, 14.

1794. Same type as the cent of 1794.

1795 to 1797, inclusive. Same, with plain edge.

1798 and 1799. None issued.

1800. Same type as No. 2 cent of 1796, with the fraction “⅟₂₀₀” on the
base of the reverse.

1801. None issued.

1802 to 1808, inclusive. Same as 1800. From 1808, the fraction “⅟₂₀₀”
omitted.

1809 to 1811, inclusive. Same type as cent of 1808.

1812 to 1824, inclusive. None issued.

1825 and 1826. Same type as cent of 1808.

1827. None issued.

1828. No. 1. Same type as cent 1808, with thirteen stars. No. 2. Same,
with twelve stars.

1829. Same, with thirteen stars.

1830. None issued.

1831 to 1836, inclusive. Same type as cent of 1808.

1837 to 1839, inclusive. None issued.

1840 to 1857, inclusive. Same type as No. 2 cent of 1837; size, 14.




THOMAS JEFFERSON,


an eminent American Statesman, and third President of the United States,
was born April 2, 1743, at Shadwell, Virginia, near the spot which
afterwards became his residence, with the name of Monticello. He was the
oldest son in a family of eight children. His father, Peter Jefferson,
was a man of great force of character and of extraordinary physical
strength. His mother, Jane Randolph, of Goochland, was descended from
an English family of great note and respectability. Young Jefferson
began his classical studies at the age of nine, and at seventeen he
entered an advance class at William and Mary College; on his way thither,
he formed the acquaintance of Patrick Henry, who was then a bankrupt
merchant, but who afterwards became the great orator of the Revolution.
At college, Jefferson was distinguished by his close application, and
devoted, it is said, from twelve to fifteen hours per day to study, and
we are told became well versed in Latin, Greek, Italian, French, and
Spanish, at the same time proficient in his mathematical studies. After
a few years course of law under Judge Wythe, he was admitted to the bar
in 1767. His success in the legal profession was remarkable; his fees
during the first year amounted to nearly three thousand dollars. In
1769, Jefferson commenced his public career as a member of the Virginia
House of Burgesses, in which he had while a student of law, listened to
Patrick Henry’s great speech on the Stamp Act. In 1773 he united with
Patrick Henry and other revolutionary patriots in devising the celebrated
committee of correspondence for disseminating intelligence between the
Colonies, of which Jefferson was one of the most active and influential
members. He was elected in 1774 to a convention to choose delegates to
the first Continental Congress at Philadelphia, and introduced at that
convention his famous “Summary view of the rights of British America.”
On the 21st of June, 1775, Jefferson took his seat in the Continental
Congress. His reputation as a Statesman and accomplished writer at once
placed him among the leaders of that renowned body. He served on the
most important committees, and among other papers drew up the reply of
Congress to the proposal of Lord North, and assisted in preparing in
behalf of the Colonies, a declaration of the cause of taking up arms
against the Mother Country. The rejection of a final petition to King
George, destroyed all hope of an honorable reconciliation with England.
Congress, early in 1776, appointed a committee to draw up a Declaration
of Independence, of which Jefferson was made Chairman; in this capacity
he drafted, at the request of the other members of the committee,
(Franklin, Adams, Sherman, and Livingston), and reported to Congress,
June 28, the great Charter of Freedom, known as the “Declaration of
American Independence,” which, on July 4, was unanimously adopted, and
signed by every member present, with a single exception. “The Declaration
of Independence,” says Edward Everett, “is equal to anything ever borne
on parchment, or expressed in the visible signs of thought.” “The heart
of Jefferson in writing it,” adds Bancroft, “and of Congress in adopting
it, _beat for all humanity_.” After resigning his seat in Congress,
Jefferson revised the laws of Virginia; among other reforms, he procured
the repeal of the laws of entail, the abolition of primogeniture, and
the restoration of the rights of conscience, a reform which he believed
would abolish “every fibre of ancient or future aristocracy;” he also
originated a complete system of elementary and collegiate education
for Virginia. In 1779, Jefferson succeeded Patrick Henry as Governor
of Virginia, and held the office during the most gloomy period of the
Revolution, and declined a re-election in 1781. In 1783, he returned to
Congress, and reported the treaty of peace, concluded at Paris, September
3, 1783, acknowledging the independence of the United States. He also
proposed and carried through Congress a bill establishing the present
Federal system of coinage, which took the place of the English pounds,
shillings, pence, etc., and also introduced measures for establishing a
Mint in Philadelphia, (the first public building built by the general
Government, still standing on Seventh street, east side, near Filbert).
In 1785, he succeeded Dr. Franklin as resident Minister at Paris. In
organizing the Government after the adoption of the Constitution, he
accepted the position of Secretary of State, tendered him by President
Washington during his first term. Jefferson was Vice-President of the
United States from 1797 to 1801, and President for the two consecutive
terms following. After participating in the inauguration of his friend
and successor, James Madison, Jefferson returned to Monticello, where
he passed the remainder of his life in directing the educational and
industrial institutions of his native State and entertaining his many
visitors and friends. His death occurred on the same day with that of
John Adams, July 4, 1826.




ALEXANDER HAMILTON,


Statesman, orator, and financier, born in the West Indian island of
Nevis, 11th of January, 1757. His father was a Scotch merchant, and his
mother was the daughter of a French Huguenot. He was educated at King’s
College, N. Y. When he was 18 years of age he surprised the people by his
public speeches and pamphlets in favor of American independence. He was
commissioned Captain of a Company of Artillery in March, 1776, and served
with distinction at the battles of Long Island, White Plains, Trenton,
and Princeton, and was appointed Aid-de-camp and Private Secretary to
General Washington in March, 1777, and gained his special favor and
confidence in planning campaigns and devising means to support the
army. In 1782 he was elected a member of the Continental Congress, and
Washington expressed the opinion that no one excelled him in probity and
sterling virtue. He was an active member of an anti-slavery party in New
York, and offered a resolution in 1784, that every member of that society
should liberate his own slaves. He was a delegate to the convention
which met in Philadelphia in May, 1787, to form a Federal Constitution
and to promote the Union of the States, and it appears was the principal
author of the movement. Hamilton was appointed Secretary of the Treasury
in 1789, at the time the nation was burdened with a heavy debt, almost
destitute of credit, and on the verge of bankruptcy. The results of his
financial policy were the restoration of public credit, protection to
American industry, and a rapid revival of trade and commerce. He resigned
his office to resume his practice of law, January 31, 1795. He declined
the position of Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States
previously tendered him. Washington testified his great esteem for
Hamilton by consulting him in the preparation of his Farewell Address, as
well as in many other acts of his noble career.

In 1804, Aaron Burr, presenting himself as a candidate for Governor
of New York, but Hamilton opposed his election expressing the opinion
that “Burr was a dangerous man and unfit to be trusted with power.”
The election of Gen. Lewis blasted the ambitious projects of Burr, who
insolently demanded an explanation of Hamilton, and finally challenged
him, Hamilton accepted the challenge, was mortally wounded at Weehawken,
and died July 12, 1804. His death was profoundly lamented throughout the
country.

NOTE.—His eldest son had been killed in a duel by a political adversary
about 1802. Mr. Hamilton was the principal author of the Federalist, and
the real father of our financial system. Immediately after adopting the
constitution, he strongly advocated the establishment of a Mint, so that
the New World would not be dependant on the Old for a circulating medium.




HON. JAMES PUTNAM KIMBALL,

PRESIDENT DIRECTOR OF ALL THE MINTS,


was born in Salem, Mass., April 26, 1836. After graduating at the High
School of his native town in 1854, he entered the Lawrence Scientific
School of Harvard University. In the summer of the following year he went
to Germany, and matriculated at the University of Frederick Wilhelm,
Berlin, in the Fall of the same year, and was graduated at the University
of George Augusta, at Gottingen, in the Autumn of 1857, with the degrees
of Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy. Upon his graduation he
entered upon a practical course in Mining and Metallurgy, at the Mining
School of Freiburg, in Saxony.

After making a tour of the Continent and England, he returned home
and engaged as the Assistant of Prof. J. D. Whitney, now of Harvard
University, in the State Geological Surveys of the States of Wisconsin
and Illinois, embracing the Upper Mississippi lead region. He continued
with Prof. Whitney during the survey, comprising the southeastern part of
Iowa.

On the establishment of the New York State Agricultural College at Ovid,
the foundation of which was subsequently merged with that of Cornell
University, Dr. Kimball was appointed to the Chair of Professor of
Chemistry and Economic Geology. Upon the appointment of the President
of the college, Gen. Patrick, as Brigadier-General of Volunteers, Dr.
Kimball became that officer’s Chief of Staff, with a commission from
the President of the United States, as Assistant Adjutant-General of
Volunteers, with the rank of Captain. This was in 1862. His first
service in the field was with the Army of the Rappahannock, under Gen.
McDowell. He took part in numerous engagements, notably, those of
Groveton, Manassas, Chantilly, South Mountain, Antietam, Fredericksburg,
Chancellorsville, and Gettysburg. General Patrick having been assigned
to duty as Provost-Marshal of the Army of the Potomac, Capt. Kimball
accompanied him, and served on the General Staff of that army under
Generals McClellan, Burnside, Hooker, and Meade, successively.

When the army went into winter quarters, Capt. Kimball, whose health
had become impaired, resigned from the army, and settled in New York.
He resumed the practice of his profession as Mining Engineer and
Metallurgist. Upon his marriage, in 1874, he accepted an honorary
Professorship in Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa., removing from New
York to one of the houses in the beautiful park and grounds of that
institution, though retaining his office and business in New York City.

Dr. Kimball has been largely identified with the mineral development
of Bedford County, Pa., and at the time of his appointment as Director
of the Mints, was President of the Everett Iron Company, whose blast
furnace, built in 1883-84, is one of the largest and finest in this
country. As a scientist he is a contributor to various scientific
journals at home and abroad, and among others the _American Journal of
Science_, published at New Haven. Several of his papers have appeared
in the proceedings of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, of
which he has been Vice President. Dr. Kimball has traveled extensively
in the United States, Mexico, and the West Indies, in prosecuting his
professional practice, and as a man of scientific accomplishments and of
affairs, bears a deservedly high reputation.

Dr. Kimball comes of Revolutionary stock. His paternal great-grandfather,
William Russell, of Boston, was associated with the Sons of Liberty, and
the leaders in public affairs in the times that tried men’s souls. He was
present, disguised as an Indian, and assisted in the famous Tea Party in
Boston harbor on the memorable 16th of December, 1773. Later, Mr. Russell
was adjutant of the Massachusetts Artillery, raised for the defense of
Boston, and which served in the Rhode Island campaign of 1777-78. Still
later, while serving as Secretary to Commander John Manley, of the U. S.
war vessel Jason, Russell was captured by the British frigate Surprise,
and confined in Mill prison till June 24, 1782, when he was exchanged.
But so sturdy a patriot could not rest unemployed, and twenty days after
his liberation, found him again in the naval service. He was again made
prisoner by the British, in November following, and consigned to the
notorious British prison ship, Jersey, lying off New York.

An anecdote is related by Mr. James Kimball, father of the subject of
this sketch, in a memoir on the Tea Party in Boston harbor furnished
the Essex Institute Historical collections (1874), which illustrates
the temper of Mr. Russell as a patriot. Returning to his home after the
destruction of the tea, he took off his shoes, and carefully dusted them
over the fire; he then took the tea canister and emptied its contents.
Next morning he had printed on one side of the canister, “Coffee,” and on
the other, “No Tea.” This was the brief decree of banishment promulgated
by the Tea Destroyers, and the prohibited luxury disappeared from their
tables.




HON. JOHN JAY KNOX.

Late Comptroller of the Currency, now President of the National Bank of
the Republic, New York City, we are indebted to _The Financier, August,
1885_, for the following biographical sketch:


Hon. John Jay Knox was Comptroller or Deputy Comptroller of the National
currency for seventeen years. He was born in Oneida county, New York,
March 19, 1828. His ancestors were Scotch Irish, and came originally
from Strabane, County Tyrone, Ireland, in 1759. He received his early
education at the Augusta Academy and the Watertown Classical Institute,
and was graduated from Hamilton College in the Class of 1849. Among those
in college with him were Senator Hawley of Connecticut, and Chas. Dudley
Warner. After leaving college he became teller in a bank at Vernon, of
which his father was President, at a salary of $300 a year, where he
remained from 1850 to 1852. He spent some time in the Burnet Bank at
Syracuse, and was afterwards cashier of the Susquehanna Valley Bank at
Binghampton. He and his brother, Henry M. Knox, established a banking
house at St. Paul, Minnesota, in 1857, shortly before that State was
admitted into the Union.

The first steamboat launched on the Red River of the North, establishing
a most important communication for the business interests of Minnesota,
was transported in the dead of winter across country on runners, from
Sauk Rapids to Breckenridge, and Mr. Knox was one of the few who paid the
expenses of the enterprise.

In the financial discussions which preceded the establishment of the
National banks, Mr. Knox took a prominent part, and made many valuable
suggestions on the currency question. He advocated a safe and convertible
currency, the issue of a uniform series of circulating notes to all the
banks, and the guarantee by the Government of circulation secured by its
own bonds.

In 1862 he was introduced to Secretary Chase and the Hon. Hugh McCulloch,
then Comptroller of the currency. The attention of the Secretary had
previously been attracted to the financial articles of Mr. Knox,
published in _Hunt’s Merchants’ Magazine_.

He was shortly afterward appointed to a clerkship under Treasurer
Spinner, and was subsequently transferred to the office of Mr. Chase, as
disbursing clerk, at a salary of $2,000 a year. After three years in this
position he became cashier of the Exchange National Bank at Norfolk, Va.,
but finding the southern climate uncongenial, after a year he returned
to Washington. He was commissioned by Secretary McCulloch to examine the
mint at San Francisco, and to select a site there for a new one. His
report upon the Mint service of the Pacific Coast was printed in the
Finance Report of 1866, with a complimentary notice by the Secretary. The
site selected was purchased from Eugene Kelly of New York for $100,000.

He subsequently visited New Orleans and discovered a deficiency of
$1,100,000 in the office of the Assistant Treasurer. He took possession
of that office, and for some weeks acted as Assistant Treasurer of the
United States.

The promotion of Mr. Knox to the office in which he was able to do
himself the most credit, and perform those services to the country which
are part and parcel of its financial progress, occurred in 1867. At this
time a vacancy was brought about in the Deputy-Comptrollership of the
Currency, and Secretary McCulloch appointed him to fill it. Until May 1,
1884, he remained as Deputy or head of the Bureau, his terms of office
being as follows: Five years as Deputy-Comptroller, from 1867 to 1872;
five years as Comptroller, from 1872 to 1877, appointed by General Grant;
five years, second term as Comptroller, from 1877 to 1882, by President
Hayes, on the recommendation of Secretary Sherman—the reappointment being
made without his knowledge, before the expiration of the preceding term,
and confirmed by the Senate without reference to any committee. He was
again reappointed, by President Arthur, April 12, 1882.

In 1870 he made an elaborate report to Congress (Senate Mis. Doc., No.
132, XLI. Cong., 2d Sess.), including a codification of the Mint and
Coinage laws, with important amendments, which was highly commended.
The bill which accompanied the report comprised, within the compass of
twelve pages of the Revised Statutes, every important provision contained
in more than sixty different enactments upon the Mint and Coinage of
the United States—the result of eighty years of legislation. This bill,
with slight amendments, was subsequently passed, and is known as “The
Coinage Act of 1873;” and the Senate Finance Committee, in recognition of
his services, by an amendment, made the Comptroller of the Currency an
_ex-officio_ member of the Assay Commission, which meets annually at the
Mint in Philadelphia for the purpose of testing the weight and fineness
of the coinage of the year.

Through his official reports, twelve in number, and his addresses on the
currency question, Mr. Knox has indirectly exercised great influence
in financial legislation, and he took an active, though quiet and
unassuming part, in the great financial _coup d’etat_ of the resumption
of specie payment.

In April, 1878, he accompanied Secretary Sherman and Attorney-General
Devens to New York, and arranged a meeting between these two members
of the Cabinet and the officers of ten of the principal banks of the
city at the National Bank of Commerce, with the view of negotiating the
sale of $50,000,000 of 4½ per cent. bonds, the avails of which were to
be used for resumption purposes. The Presidents of the banks, who were
present, gave Secretary Sherman no encouragement as to the purchase of
the bonds at the rates proposed by him. Upon the return of the Secretary
and Comptroller to the Fifth Avenue Hotel, in the evening, they were
met by August Belmont, who had a cable dispatch from the Rothschilds,
authorizing a purchase of the whole amount at a premium of one and
one-half per cent. for the account of the syndicate. Upon the following
day the Secretary and the Comptroller returned to Washington, after an
absence of three days, and the success of the negotiation was announced,
much to the chagrin of some members of the Finance Committee of the House
of Representatives, who were then bitterly opposing the scheme proposed
by the Secretary for the resumption of specie payments. This negotiation
was the first of a series of brilliant financial transactions preceding
and following resumption on January 1, 1879.

Subsequently he arranged a conference, which was held in the Treasury
at Washington, in the evening, between leading bank officials of New
York and Secretaries Sherman and Evarts, which resulted in the admission
of the Assistant Treasurer as a member of the clearing house, and the
receipt by the banks of legal tender notes on a par with gold; and in
1881, by request of President Garfield, he attended a conference in New
York between the leading financial men of the city and Secretary Windom
and Attorney-General McVeagh, which resulted in the issue and successful
negotiation of three and one-half per cent. bonds.

At the time of his resignation, Mr. Knox was the oldest officer in term
of service in the department. One of the leading financial writers in the
country, in noticing his retirement, in the _Nation_ said:

“The retirement of Mr. John Jay Knox from the office of Comptroller of
the Currency is a loss to the public service of no common kind. The
intelligence which he has brought to the complicated duties of his
office has never been surpassed in any similar station, and has not
been equalled in the particular station which he has so long filled.
The National banking system owes much of its present carefulness in
detail management to his mastery of all the facts and principles of
sound finance. His annual reports embrace perhaps the most complete and
satisfactory arrangement of information needful to the business-man, the
student, and the legislator that has ever been furnished in this country
on any economical subject. Mr. Knox resigns the Comptrollership to take
the Presidency of the National Bank of the Republic of New York City.”

In a speech before the Merchants’ Club of Boston, in February, 1885, Mr.
Knox alluded to the subjects of civil service reform and the coinage of
silver in the following trenchant language:

“The platforms of both parties in the late campaign contained nothing but
platitudes upon the silver question, which should have been the burning
issue. The candidate of the Republicans seemed to avoid the issue in
his letter of acceptance, rather than to express the sentiments of the
best men in his party. The candidate of the Democrats said nothing. Yet
I am told by good authority that Governor Cleveland is earnest in his
desire to stop the coinage, and that nothing would please him more than
to have a clause inserted in an appropriation bill which would repeal
the law which was passed in the interest of silver miners when the
whole production is not equal, according to Edward Atkinson, who is an
authority upon such subjects, to the production of eggs by the hens of
this country! If Governor Cleveland has the bottom and pluck to carry out
these two reforms, his administration will be one of the most memorable
in the annals of the country. It will elevate not only every branch
of the civil service, but will greatly improve the character of the
representatives sent to Congress from every State of the Union, and will
serve to lift the depression which now burdens every industrial interest.
It will require some intellect to work out these reforms. But it will
require more bottom than brains, and if he has the grit to stand by his
pledges, he will have the united support of all intelligent, upright, and
honest men everywhere without distinction of party.”

Mr. Knox has written a valuable book, which is justly popular, entitled
“United States Notes.” It is published by the Scribners, and republished
in London, and is a history of the various issues of paper money by the
Government, and is said by George Bancroft to be “a clear, thorough,
able, accurate and impartial work on United States Notes.”




THE COINAGE ACT OF 1873.


The enactment of the Mint Law of 1873 marks an era in the Mint Service
of the United States. Prior to this, the Director of the Mint at
Philadelphia was the Director of all the Mints—the institution at
Philadelphia being regarded as the “Mother Mint,” and the others, at San
Francisco, New Orleans, etc., were called Branch Mints. Each branch had
its Superintendent, reporting direct to Philadelphia. But the authors of
the Act of 1873 regarded the Mint Service as so large and important a
part of the Government, that it should be constituted a separate Bureau
of the Treasury, with the Director located at Washington. One of the
promoters of this Act was the Hon. John Jay Knox, late Comptroller of
the Currency, and now President of the National Bank of the Republic,
New York. The following sketch of the origin and history of the new law
may prove of interest. It was originally published in Rhodes’ Journal of
Banking, July, 1884. Referring to Mr. Knox, the author says:

    “In 1870 he made an elaborate report to Congress (Senate Mis.
    Doc. No. 132, XLI. Cong., 2d Sess.), including a codification
    of the Mint and Coinage laws, with important amendments, which
    was highly commended. The method adopted in this codification
    was, first, to arrange in as concise a form as possible the
    coinage laws then in existence, with such additional sections
    and suggestions as seemed valuable. The proposed bill was
    then printed upon paper having a wide margin, and transmitted
    to the officers of the different Mints and Assay offices,
    and to such other gentlemen as were known to be conversant
    and intelligent upon the subject of the coinage, with the
    request that the printed bill should be returned with such
    notes as experience and education should dictate. In this way
    the views of many gentlemen who were conversant with these
    subjects were obtained, with but little inconvenience to such
    correspondents. This correspondence was subsequently published
    by order of Congress, in H. R. Ex. Doc. No. 307, XLI. Cong.,
    2d Sess. Having received these suggestions, the bill, which
    comprised within the compass of eight or ten pages of the
    Revised Statutes every important provision contained in more
    than sixty different enactments upon the Mint and Coinage of
    the United States—the result of eighty years of legislation—was
    prepared and submitted to Congress. This bill, with but slight
    amendments, was subsequently passed, and was known as ‘The
    Coinage Act of 1873;’ and the Senate Finance Committee, in
    recognition of the services of the Comptroller of the Currency,
    by an amendment, made that officer an _ex-officio_ member of
    the Assay Commission, which meets annually at the Mint in
    Philadelphia for the purpose of testing the weight and fineness
    of the coinage of the year. Upon his suggestion the coinage of
    the silver dollar was discontinued, and the paragraph in the
    report upon this subject was as follows:

    “The coinage of the silver dollar-piece, the history of which
    is here given, is discontinued in the proposed bill. It is by
    law the dollar unit; and, assuming the value of gold to be
    fifteen and one-half times that of silver, being about the
    mean ratio for the past six years, is worth in gold a premium
    of about three per cent., its value being $1.03.12, and
    intrinsically more than seven per cent. premium in our other
    silver coins, its value thus being $1.07.42. The present laws
    consequently authorize both a gold dollar unit and a silver
    dollar unit, differing from each other in intrinsic value.
    The present gold dollar-piece is made the dollar unit in the
    proposed bill, and the silver piece is discontinued.”

The first Director of the Mint under this new law, was the Hon. Henry R.
Linderman. The title of the chief officer at Philadelphia being changed
to Superintendent—the first incumbent with that title was the Hon. James
Pollock.

Biographical notices of these officers will be found in their appropriate
place in this volume.




DIRECTORS OF THE MINT.


DAVID RITTENHOUSE, FIRST DIRECTOR OF THE MINT.

Entering the Cabinet, the portraits of the different Directors attract
attention. That of David Rittenhouse is the copy of a painting by Charles
Willson Peale. Mr. Rittenhouse was appointed by Washington, April 14,
1792, and remained in charge of the Mint until June, 1795, when his
declining health compelled him to resign.

At an early age he indicated mechanical talent of a high order in the
construction of a clock, and his studies from that time were principally
mathematical. His genius soon attracted attention, and he was appointed
by the colonial governor a surveyor, and in that capacity determined the
famous Mason and Dixon line. He succeeded Benjamin Franklin as President
of the American Philosophical Society. Mr. Barber, late Engraver of the
Mint, executed a bronze medal of Dr. Rittenhouse. Possibly, excepting
Duvivier’s head of Washington after Houdon, it cannot be surpassed in
the Cabinet. The engraver had a very fine subject, and treated it in the
highest style of art. On the obverse is “David Rittenhouse,” with date of
birth and death. On the reverse, inscription, “He belonged to the whole
human race.”—“Wm. Barber.” This beautiful memento is highly prized.


HENRY WILLIAM DESAUSSURE, SECOND DIRECTOR OF THE MINT.

The portrait of Henry William Desaussure, now in the cabinet, was painted
by Samuel Du Bois, from a daguerreotype taken from a family picture. This
Director was distinguished for his legal ability, as well as his strict
integrity. He entered upon his duties with a protest, as he claimed
no knowledge of the requirements of the position, having long been a
practicing lawyer; but he was reassured by Alex. Hamilton, then Secretary
of the Treasury, and proved himself a fine officer for the short term of
his service. He was appointed by Washington, July 8, 1795, but resigned
in the following October. Washington not only expressed regret at losing
so valuable an officer, but consulted him as to the selection of a
successor.


ELIAS BOUDINOT, THIRD DIRECTOR OF THE MINT,

was appointed October 28, 1795, and remained in office eleven years.
In the summer and autumn of 1797 and the two following years, and also
of 1802 and 1803, the Mint was closed on account of the ravages of the
yellow fever. Mr. Boudinot resigned in 1805, and devoted the remainder
of his life to benevolent and literary pursuits. He died on the 24th of
October, 1821, at the advanced age of eighty-two. The fine portrait of
this venerable Director seen in the Cabinet was presented by a relative,
and is a good copy of a painting by Waldo and Jewett.


ROBERT PATTERSON, LL.D., FOURTH DIRECTOR OF THE MINT,

was appointed by President Jefferson, January 17, 1806. He was a native
of Ireland, distinguished for his acquirements and ability. He held
the office of Director for an exceptionally long term of service. His
portrait, which hangs in the Cabinet, is a copy of a fine original by
Rembrandt Peale.


SAMUEL MOORE, M. D., FIFTH DIRECTOR OF THE MINT,

was appointed by President James Monroe, July 15, 1824. He was a native
of New Jersey, and the son of a distinguished Revolutionary officer. He
was one of the first graduates of the Penn University, in 1791, and was
afterwards a tutor in that institution. During his directorship the Mint
was removed to the present building. His portrait was painted from life
by B. Samuel Du Bois, now in the Cabinet.


ROBERT MASKELL PATTERSON, M. D., SIXTH DIRECTOR OF THE MINT,

son of a former Director, was appointed by President Andrew Jackson, May
26, 1835. His term of office was marked by an entire revolution in the
coinage, and the ready acceptance of those improvements which followed
so rapidly upon the introduction of steam. Dr. Patterson possessed
the advantage of foreign travel; and having become familiar with the
discoveries which had been adopted in the French Mint, he inaugurated and
perfected them, also introducing improvements, which are still in use, in
the machinery of the Mint. His portrait is in the Cabinet.


GEORGE N. ECKERT, M. D., SEVENTH DIRECTOR OF THE MINT,

was appointed by President Fillmore, July 1, 1851. He served nearly two
years, and, resigning, was followed by


THOMAS M. PETTIT, EIGHTH DIRECTOR OF THE MINT,

who was appointed by President Pierce, April 4, 1853. He died a few
weeks after his appointment. No portrait of him in the Cabinet. He was
succeeded by


HON. JAMES ROSS SNOWDEN, LL.D., NINTH DIRECTOR OF THE MINT.

Mr. Snowden, who was appointed by President Pierce, June 3, 1853, was
formerly a member of the State Legislature, and served two terms as
Speaker; was afterwards elected for two terms as State Treasurer. During
his official term the building was made fire-proof, the large collection
of minerals was added, and nickel was first coined.

Mr. Snowden has placed the numismatic world under many obligations, by
directing the publication of two valuable quarto volumes,—one of them a
description of the coins in the Cabinet, under the title of “The Mint
Manual of Coins of all Nations,” the other “The Medallic Memorials of
Washington,” being mainly a description of a special collection made by
himself. In the preface to the former work he gives due credit to the
literary labors of Mr. George Bull, then Curator, and also to a reprint
of the account of the ancient collection, by Mr. Du Bois, who also
furnished other valuable material. These books are valuable as authority,
and by reason of the national character of the last mentioned.


JAMES POLLOCK, A.M., LL.D., TENTH DIRECTOR AND FIRST SUPERINTENDENT,

was appointed by Abraham Lincoln in 1861, and was re-appointed by
President Grant to succeed Dr. Linderman in 1869 to 1873. Born in
Pennsylvania in 1810; graduated at Princeton College, New Jersey, in
1831, and commenced the practice of the law in 1833; he served in
Congress three terms; was elected Governor of Pennsylvania in 1854, and
in 1860 was a peace delegate to Washington from his State to counsel with
representatives from different parts of the Union as to the possibility
of amicably adjusting our unhappy national troubles. His portrait, by
Winner, hangs in the eastern section of the Cabinet.[19]


HON. HENRY RICHARD LINDERMAN, M. D., DIRECTOR OF THE MINTS AND ASSAY
OFFICES OF THE UNITED STATES,

was the eldest son of John Jordan Linderman, M. D., and Rachel Brodhead.
He was born in Pike county, Pennsylvania, the 25th of December, 1825. The
elder Dr. Linderman was one of the most noted physicians in northeastern
Pennsylvania, and practiced medicine for nearly half a century in the
valley of the Delaware, in this State, and New Jersey. He was a graduate
of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, of New York, where he had
studied under the famous Dr. Valentine Mott. Dr. Linderman’s grandfather,
Jacob von Linderman, came to this country during the disturbed period
of the Austrian War of Succession, during the first half of the last
century, and settled in Orange county, where he purchased a tract of
land. The property is still in the possession of the family. Jacob von
Linderman was the cadet of an ancient and honorable family of Saxony,
which had been distinguished for two centuries in the law and medicine,
several of his ancestors having been counsellors and physicians to the
Elector. He was a descendant of the same family as Margaretta Linderman,
the mother of the great Reformer, Martin Luther. Of this paternal
stock, Dr. Henry R. Linderman was, by his mother, a nephew of the late
Hon. Richard Brodhead, Senator of the United States from Pennsylvania;
grandson of Richard Brodhead, one of the Judges of Pike county, and
great-grandson of Garrett Brodhead, an officer of the Revolution, and
a great-nephew of Luke Brodhead, a Captain in Col. Miles’ Regiment,
and of Daniel Brodhead, Colonel of the 8th Pennsylvania Regiment of
the Continental Line; the latter was afterwards a Brigadier-General,
was one of the original members of the Cincinnati of this State, and
Surveyor-General of the Commonwealth when the war closed. His only son
Daniel was a First Lieutenant in Colonel Shee’s Battalion, was taken
prisoner by the British, and died after two years’ captivity. General
Brodhead married Governor Mifflin’s widow, and died in Milford, Pike
county, in 1803. The nephew of these three brothers, Charles Wessel
Brodhead, of New York, was also in the Revolutionary army, a Captain of
Grenadiers. They all descended from Daniel Brodhead, a Captain of King
Charles II.’s Grenadiers, who had a command in Nichol’s expedition, which
captured New York from the Dutch in 1664. Captain Brodhead was of the
family of that name in Yorkshire, which terminated in England so recently
as 1840 in the person of Sir Henry T. L. Brodhead, baronet.

Dr. Henry R. Linderman, after receiving an academic education, entered
the New York College of Physicians and Surgeons. When barely of age he
graduated, returned to Pike county and began practice with his father,
and earned a reputation as a skillful and rising physician.

In 1855 his uncle, Richard Brodhead (United States Senator), procured
his appointment as chief clerk of the Philadelphia Mint. He held this
position until 1864, when he resigned and engaged in business as a banker
and broker in Philadelphia. In 1867 he was appointed Director of the Mint
by President Johnson. In 1869 he resigned. In 1870 he was a commissioner
of the Government to the Pacific coast to investigate the San Francisco
and Carson Mints, and to adjust some intricate bullion questions. In
1871 he was a commissioner to Europe, to examine the coinage systems
of the Great Powers. In 1872 he was a commissioner, with the late Dr.
Robert E. Rogers, of the University of Pennsylvania, for fitting up the
Government refinery at the San Francisco Mint. In the same year he wrote
an elaborate report on the condition of the gold and silver market of the
world. “In this report he called attention to the disadvantages arising
from the computation and quotation of exchange with Great Britain on
the old and complicated Colonial basis, and from the undervaluation of
foreign coins in computing the value of foreign invoices and levying and
collecting duties at the United States Custom Houses.” He was the author
of the Act of March 9th, 1873, which corrected the defects above referred
to. His predictions in this report on the decline in the value of silver
as compared to gold were fulfilled to the letter.

He was thoroughly familiar with the practice, science, and finance of the
Coinage Department of the Government, and about this time he wrote the
Coinage Act of 1873, and secured its passage through Congress. General
Grant, then President, considered him as the fittest man to organize the
new Bureau, and, though a Democrat, appointed him first Director under
the new Act; the Director being at the head of all the Mints and Assay
Offices in the United States.

For the remainder of his life until his last illness, which began in
the fall of 1878, he worked incessantly. Under his hands the Bureau of
the Mints and the entire Coinage and Assay service were shaped in their
present form. Much is due to his official subordinates, but his was the
master mind, his the skillful and methodical direction, the studious and
laborious devotion to the duties and obligations of his high position
at the head of the Coinage Department of this great nation, which have
given the United States the best coinage system in the world. It was
Dr. Linderman who projected the “trade dollar,” solely for commerce,
and not intended to enter into circulation here. It was a successful
means of finding a market for our great surplus of silver, which Dr.
Linderman sought to send to Oriental countries rather than flood our own
and depreciate its fickle value. The old silver dollar by the Coinage
Act of 1873 was abolished. The codification of all the legislation of
Congress since the foundation of the Mint in 1792 was thus accomplished.
Other needed legislative enactments were passed by Congress on his
recommendations.

In 1877 Dr. Linderman wrote, and Putnam published, “Money and Legal
Tender in the United States,” a valuable and interesting contribution
to the science of finance, which was favorably received abroad as well
as here. The same year his official report presented one of the most
exhaustive, profound, and able efforts which has ever emanated from the
Government press. The fact that several of his reports were in use as
text books of technical information in some of the technical schools
(notably that at Harvard University), will serve to show the estimation
in which the late Dr. Linderman was held as an authority upon coinage,
mining, and finance. When the Japanese established their mint, that
government made him the liberal offer of $50,000 to stay in their country
one year and organize their mint service.

When M. Henri Cernuschi, the eminent financier and the Director of the
French Mint, was in this country in 1878, he said, “Dr. Linderman’s
name is as celebrated on the continent of Europe in connection with
his opinions on the double standard of metallic currency, as that of
Garibaldi in connection with the Italian revolution.”

In 1877 Dr. Linderman was appointed a commissioner, with power to name
two others, to investigate abuses in the San Francisco Mint and Custom
House. He appointed ex-Governor Low, of California, and Mr. Henry Dodge,
and this commission sat as a court of inquiry in San Francisco in 1877.
He returned to Washington in the autumn of that year. His report of the
commission was duly approved, and all the changes it advised were made by
the Government authorities.

In 1853 Dr. Linderman married Miss Emily Davis, a highly accomplished
and talented lady, daughter of George H. Davis, one of the pioneer
coal operators of the Wyoming and Carbon districts. Dr. Linderman died
at his residence in Washington in January, 1879, after a long illness
superinduced by his self-sacrificing care and solicitude for public
interests. His conscientious and valuable aid and advice in counsel,
his conception of public duty, which so entirely guided his conduct
in all his official relations connected with our present monetary
system, established through his efforts, justly entitle him to be held
in grateful remembrance for the benefits he conferred upon his fellow
countrymen.[20]


COL. A. LOUDON SNOWDEN, SECOND SUPERINTENDENT,

was born in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania, and descends from one of the
old families of Pennsylvania.

He was educated at the Jefferson College in Washington, Pennsylvania. On
the completion of his collegiate course he studied law, but on May 7,
1857, just before being admitted to the bar, accepted the position of
Register, tendered him by his uncle, the late Hon. James Ross Snowden,
then Director of the United States Mint.

In 1866, a vacancy having occurred in the office of Coiner of the Mint,
he was appointed by the President, and entered upon the duties of this
office October 1, 1866.

At the request of President Grant, in 1876, he was induced to accept the
Postmastership of Philadelphia.

He assumed the duties of that office January 1, 1877, with much
reluctance, but soon manifested as Postmaster the same capacity for
thorough discipline and organization which had distinguished him in the
Mint. President Hayes, in December, 1878, tendered him the position
of Director of all the Mints of the United States, made vacant by the
expiration of the commission of Dr. Linderman. After the death of Dr.
Linderman the President again sent for him and urged his acceptance
of the place, which he was believed to have declined previous to Dr.
Linderman’s death from motives of delicacy, having long been the friend
of the late Director.

This offer he again declined, as the acceptance of it would necessitate
his removal from Philadelphia to Washington.

In the following February the President again made a tender of office.
This time it was the superintendency of the Philadelphia Mint, and,
as its acceptance of it restored him to a service agreeable to him in
every particular, and permitted him to remain among his friends in
Philadelphia, he promptly accepted, and assumed control of the Mint on
the 1st of March, 1879, and continued in charge of the “Parent Mint” of
the United States until June, 1885, when he resigned his commission.

In January, 1873, he was elected vice-president of the Fire Association,
one of the oldest and largest fire insurance companies of the United
States. In 1868 he was elected its president. In October, 1880, he was
elected president of the “United Fire Underwriters of America,” an
organization embracing the officers of more than one hundred and fifty of
the leading American and foreign companies doing business in the United
States, representing a capital of over $118,000,000.


DANIEL M. FOX.

Hon. Daniel M. Fox, the new Superintendent of the United States Mint, was
born in this city on the 16th of June, 1819. His ancestors, both on his
father’s and mother’s side, are not without fame, many of them having
figured more or less conspicuously in the early history of the country.
Daniel Miller, his maternal grandfather, took quite a prominent part in
the Revolutionary war, being present with Washington at Germantown, Pa.,
New Brunswick, N. J., the Highlands, N. Y., Valley Forge, Pa., the siege
of Yorktown, and witnessed the surrender of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown.
During the campaign in New Jersey he was taken by the British as a spy
and brought to Philadelphia, but effected his escape and rejoined the
army. At the termination of the war he finally settled with his family in
the old Northern Liberties, where Mr. Fox’s grandfather, by the father’s
side, John Fox, resided. Here Daniel’s father and mother were born, and
here he himself first saw the light, and was reared and educated.

His parents were possessed of very little of this world’s goods, but
that did not prevent them from giving their son a liberal education,
which he was not backward in taking advantage of. After leaving school
the first two years were employed as clerk in a store, after which he
turned his attention to conveyancing, as he intended to make that his
permanent profession. He devoted the next five years to the close study
of all its intricate details in the office of the late Jacob F. Hoeckley,
who at that period stood at the head of the profession in this city, and
graduating with eminent credit he commenced practice for himself.

[Illustration: _Daniel M. Fox_]

The profession is one affording many temptations to men who are not well
grounded in strict integrity, and sustained in the paths of rectitude
and virtue by a conscientious regard for the _meum_ and _tuum_ of a
well-ordered business life; but Mr. Fox, looking upon his profession as
one of dignity and trust, soon commanded and permanently secured the
confidence of the public, by avoiding those speculative ventures which
have brought so much disrepute upon it, and by a scrupulous regard for
the interests of those who placed their property in his keeping. In
consequence, the business entrusted to him has increased to such an
extent from year to year that it is said he has more estates in his
charge for settlement, as administrator, executor, or trustee, than
any other single individual in Philadelphia. His practice constantly
increasing as time rolled on, the laws touching real estate operations
becoming more complicated year by year, and appreciating the necessity
in many cases for court proceedings to secure perfection of title,
he submitted himself to a legal examination, and was admitted to the
Philadelphia bar in November, 1878.


HIS PUBLIC CAREER.

His first step in public life was at the age of twenty-one, when he was
elected a member of the Board of School Directors of the district in
which he then lived, and for many years prior to 1854, when the city was
consolidated, and the law in that regard changed, he was President of
the Board. For many years he had taken an active interest in the public
schools, and was a pioneer in the night-school system for adults. He
was chosen two consecutive terms by the City Councils as a Director of
Girard College, and also represented the Northern Liberties in the Board
of Health, having charge of the sanitary matters and the quarantine
regulations of the city, and was quite active and efficient in the
abatement of the cholera, which was epidemic here twice during the nine
years he served in that Board.

For three years he represented his ward in the Select Council of
Philadelphia with credit and ability. In 1861 he retired from Councils,
and in the year following was unanimously nominated for the Mayoralty by
the Democratic party. The city at that time was strongly Republican, and
he was defeated by Hon. Alexander Henry, although he ran largely ahead of
his ticket. In 1865 he again received a unanimous nomination for the same
office, and ran against Hon. Morton McMichael and with the same result.
His personal popularity, however, was in the ascendant, and when he was
placed in nomination in 1868 against General Hector Tyndale, he was duly
elected.

On January 1, 1869, he was inaugurated, and his first official duty as
Mayor was to formally receive on behalf of the city authorities General
Grant as President-elect. The reception took place in Independence Hall,
in the presence of Councils and a large number of prominent citizens,
and was conducted on the part of the new Mayor with ease, grace, and
elegance. His municipal administration was marked by many reformatory
and sanitary measures, especially in those portions of the city where
the impurity of the denizens hazarded the health of more respectable
neighborhoods. It was during his official term that the Volunteer Fire
Department ceased to exist. It had been his practice during its closing
days to attend all conflagrations for the double purpose of holding a
moral check on the lawless and to stimulate the police in their duties of
keeping the streets clear for the free exercise of those whose business
it was to extinguish the flames. The passage by Councils of the ordinance
establishing a Paid Fire Department created a profound sensation in the
city, arousing the bitter feelings of many of the volunteer firemen, and
kindling an intense anxiety on the part of the people generally as to
the fate of the bill when it reached the hands of the Mayor. He retained
it for a fortnight, unsigned, evidently desiring to soften the feeling
engendered by its passage, and also to perfect such arrangements as would
be necessary to meet any emergency in carrying the act into effect. The
latter being accomplished, he formally approved the ordinance and it
became a law. This course was very unpalatable to the riotous element
of the volunteers, who manifested their feelings in various ways, such
as suspending the effigy of the Mayor in several engine houses, but no
other violent demonstrations of any moment occurred, as the steps taken
by his officers proved effective and rigorous; these, coupled with the
co-operation of many of the discreet firemen, enabled the new “Paid
Department” to go into operation without any disturbance whatever, and
the city has ever since rejoiced in an efficient system without any of
the former accompaniments of noise, riot, and public disturbance.

A startling attempt at assassination occurred during Mayor Fox’s
incumbency, in the shooting of United States Revenue Detective James
Brooks, in open day, in a Front street store, by some miscreants. The
case was at once taken in hand by the Mayor, who by stimulating the
police and offering heavy rewards caused the arrest of the parties.
Their conviction soon followed. Whenever any question of grave public
importance presented itself, it was his practice to invite conferences
with the most prominent citizens at his office, as to the best course to
be pursued; thus, while showing a true devotion to the public interests,
he was enabled to act with great sagacity; he also brought to his
support the power of eloquence, which he possesses in an eminent degree;
this added much to his popularity. He did not hesitate to use the veto
whenever he differed with Councils, and during his term he transmitted to
these bodies thirty-two messages of this character, the majority of which
were sustained. His official term ended in a most gratifying manner,
both chambers of Councils unanimously passing resolutions of thanks for
his able and energetic administration of the city’s affairs. This was
followed by a grand banquet at the Academy of Music, tendered to him by
our most distinguished citizens, irrespective of party. In two successive
State conventions he received complimentary votes for the Gubernatorial
nominations.

The great International Exposition in commemoration of the centennial
anniversary of the birth of our nation was held in this city in 1876. In
the preparation for this grand demonstration, in its opening and down
to its close, in the autumn of that year, Mr. Fox took a leading part,
the incipient step having been taken in the Mayor’s Office during his
administration, in a consultation with a committee from the Franklin
Institute, who waited upon him for that purpose. As an active and earnest
member of the Centennial Board of Finance, which had charge of all the
funds for the Exposition, Mr. Fox contributed his time, his means, and
his voice greatly to its promotion and final success.

Once more Mr. Fox was called to the discharge of an important public
duty. For a number of years a controversy had existed between the
general Government and the railroad corporations with reference to the
transportation of the United States mails, the former complaining that
the service was not satisfactorily rendered, and the latter that they
were not adequately compensated.

On the 12th of July, 1876, Congress passed a bill authorizing the
President to appoint a Commission of three civilians to investigate the
subject and make report upon it. Mr. Fox was one of the appointees,
his colleagues being selected from other States. The Commission, in
the exercise of its functions, visited every section of the country,
embracing a distance of travel of over twenty-eight thousand miles.
Sessions were held in all the principal cities, much testimony taken,
and when its labors were completed a report of great value was prepared
and presented, which went far towards a satisfactory settlement of the
controversy.

    [From The History of the Philadelphia Police.]

    One of the most important occurrences during Mr. Fox’s term as
    Mayor was the abolition of the old Volunteer Fire Department.
    The ordinance for the erection of a Paid Fire department was
    passed December 29, 1870, after a series of hot debates. The
    old volunteers were a power in politics, but their acts of
    violence and incendiarism made it imperative in the opinion
    of a majority of citizens that they should be superseded. The
    passage of the ordinance caused a sensation because it was not
    believed that Councils would dare to abolish the volunteers.
    Feeling ran high. The firemen held meeting after meeting in
    their engine-houses. All attention was directed towards the
    Mayor. Would he sign the ordinance and make it a law? He had
    ten days in which to consider the bill. He was known to favor
    it; but day after day passed and he took no action. Meanwhile
    he was not asleep. He had perfected police arrangements whereby
    the whole force could be called out at once on the outbreak
    of any violence, and the excitement was so great that the
    rowdy element and the firemen were expected to sally forth at
    any moment. There were two or three isolated outrages, but
    no general riot. The ten days drew towards a close and the
    excitement became less intense every day. It was with this
    object in view that the Mayor delayed signing the ordinance. He
    waited until the last day before putting his signature to the
    bill. The volunteers had become in a degree reconciled to the
    measure, and some of them hoped to resume work with engine and
    hook-and-ladder under the new system.

    The old volunteer firemen now hold Mr. Fox in high esteem.
    At the great fire in Newhall, Borie & Co.’s sugar refinery,
    which stood at the corner of Race and Crown streets, the lives
    of a number of the volunteers were endangered through their
    own stubbornness, and only saved through determined action
    on the part of the Mayor. The engine-house of the refinery
    was a single story building facing on Crown street; over it
    was a projection five or six stories in height containing the
    hoisting apparatus and other machinery of great weight.

    HIS WATCHFUL CARE SAVES MANY LIVES.

    About a score of the firemen took up a position on the roof
    of the engine-house and directed a stream of water against
    the main building. Unknown to them the flames were rapidly
    eating their way to the machinery in the projection over them.
    The Mayor made it a point to attend all important fires, and
    frequently his vigilance at great conflagrations resulted in
    the detection of gangs of thieves who operated in the uniform
    of firemen. On this occasion he observed the danger which
    threatened the men. It was evident to him that the machinery
    would soon be reached, and the projection fall. A serious
    disaster would be the consequence unless the men removed. The
    Mayor sent the Chief of Police to inform them of their danger,
    and endeavored to induce them to retire from their perilous
    position. They angrily declared they would occupy whatever
    place they pleased, and said the Mayor should mind his own
    business as he had no authority over them. The Mayor saw that
    prompt and decisive action was necessary if the lives of the
    men were not to be sacrificed. He ordered Chief Mulholland
    to drive the headstrong fellows from the roof by force. All
    the policemen in the neighborhood of the fire were collected
    and they charged the volunteers, who were routed with some
    difficulty and came clamoring around the Mayor, demanding to
    know by what authority he had interfered with them, execrating
    and threatening him with personal violence.

    “Wait five minutes and I will give you an answer,” said Mr.
    Fox, quietly.

    A moment later the projection with all the heavy machinery
    fell, crushing the engine-house. The men who a moment before
    had reviled the Mayor were silent for a moment, then they
    gathered around him and gave three prolonged and hearty cheers
    for Daniel M. Fox.

Mr. Fox was the first Mayor who directed the roping off the streets
during large conflagrations, thereby keeping away not only the crowds who
drawn by idle curiosity went simply to look on but also those persons who
may have been attracted for purposes of theft. It aided considerably,
too, in giving the Fire Department a clean working space, thus adding
to their efficiency, and also avoiding the chance of accidents from
falling embers or walls. This plan so wisely begun has been followed with
advantage by every successive Mayor.

Mr. Fox’s participation in the philanthropic and benevolent movements
of the city has always been unlimited. As President of the Pennsylvania
Society for the Protection of Children from Cruelty, Trustee of the
Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, and in his connection
with many other charitable works, his constant aim has been the
alleviation of the sufferings and the general welfare of his fellow men.

Personally, Mr. Fox is of dignified and distinguished presence, yet in
manner affable, courteous, and kind. Always interested in his fellow
men, he draws men towards him and impresses them with the sincerity of
his nature and the unselfishness of his purpose. Love of justice is
one of the strong characteristics of the man, and his life has been
singularly free from the petty strifes which disfigure the lives of so
many who have had to fight their battle against odds. His selection for
the Superintendency of the Mint, being unsought, was a just tribute to
his unquestioned integrity and his eminent abilities as a public man. The
country is fortunate in his preferment, and his administration of the
affairs of the Mint will fitly crown an honored career.

Superintendent Fox has greatly improved the immediate surroundings of
the Mint since his entrance upon duty. The areas have been cleared of
rubbish, temporary wooden structures demolished, where it is possible
to dispense with them, and a systematic policing of the premises has
been adopted. But perhaps the most notable of the improvements which
Superintendent Fox has made is the removal of the old steam plant
from the body of the basement and the creation of a new and much more
efficient plant in vaults prepared outside of the walls. This has had
the effect to render the atmosphere of the building cool and pure, and
at the same time has actually increased the working space nearly forty
per cent. Another story has also been added to the adjusting room, with
appliances for cooking and toilet, thus increasing the comfort of the
ladies employed in that department. The plots on either hand of the
entrance on Chestnut street show some happy efforts to please the eye,
in a renewal of the sward and landscape gardening in colors. The fine
specimens of American cypress in the centre of these plots seem to have
borrowed fresh attractions from their new and beautiful setting, and
their foliage contrasts pleasingly with the clumps of foliage plants and
exotics beneath. Throughout the premises the supervision of a thorough
business man is apparent; nothing seems to escape the eyes of the
vigilant Superintendent.


COINERS.

HENRY VOIGT, the first Chief Coiner, was appointed by President
Washington, January 29, 1793. He was selected on account of his
mechanical knowledge and skill, being a clockmaker by trade. Many of our
old families bear witness to the skill of Mr. Voigt in the affection they
have for many an “old clock on the stairs,” for the manufacture of which
timekeepers he was quite famous. Mr. Voigt held office until removed by
death in February, 1814.

ADAM ECKFELDT was born in Philadelphia, June 15, 1769. He was trained
to mechanical pursuits by his father, who was a large manufacturer of
edge-tools and implements. On the establishment of the Mint he was
engaged to construct some of the machinery for it. He built the first
screw-coining presses. The contrivance for ejecting the piece from
the collar, together with some other mechanical appliances, were his
invention.

In an old pay-roll of 1795 (see page 12), we find the name of “Adam
Eckfeldt, Die Forger and Turner.” His official connection dates from
January 1, 1796, when he was appointed Assistant Coiner by Director
Boudinot, with the consent of President Washington. Upon the death of
Henry Voigt, Mr. Eckfeldt was appointed to succeed him as Chief Coiner,
and remained in that position until he resigned, in 1839. He continued to
visit the Mint for some years after; and he is yet remembered as a hard
worker in the Mint, without compensation. For half a century he was one
of the central figures of the Mint service. His mechanical skill, his
zeal, energy, and uprightness, brought him many distinctions, both as an
officer and a citizen.

In his letter of resignation he warmly recommends the appointment of
Franklin Peale, in the following terms: “I feel it my duty, in leaving
office, to recommend that my place be filled by Mr. Franklin Peale, the
present Melter and Refiner. Our close association as fellow-officers has
made me acquainted with his peculiar qualifications, and I therefore know
him to be fitted for the situation; and I do not know any other person
that is.” He had a high ideal of what a chief coiner should be.

Mr. Eckfeldt died February 6, 1852, in his 83d year.

FRANKLIN PEALE was the son of Charles Willson Peale, the eminent
artist and founder of Peale’s Museum. Born in the Hall of the American
Philosophical Society, October 15, 1795, he was presented to the society
by his father, when four months old, as “the first child born in the
Philosophical Hall,” and with a request that the society should name him.
He was accordingly named after the chief founder and first President of
the Society—Franklin.

Young Peale early showed a taste for mechanics, and his father gave
him every facility to improve himself in any direction in which nature
seemed to lead him. Part of his general education was received at the
University of Pennsylvania and part at the Germantown Academy. At the age
of seventeen he entered the machine shop of Hodgson & Bro., Delaware.
He soon grew to be a skilled mechanic and draughtsman. Some time after
he became manager of his father’s Museum. He assisted Baldwin in the
construction of the first locomotive built in this country. In 1833
Mr. Peale entered the Mint service, and was sent to Europe by Director
Moore to examine into foreign Mint methods. He brought with him valuable
apparatus for the Assay Department, together with other important
improvements and suggestions. He was appointed Melter and Refiner in 1836
and Chief Coiner in 1839. He introduced the first steam coining press,
the milling machine and some other of our more modern forms of Mint
machinery.

Mr. Peale’s administration as Chief Coiner may be said to mark an era in
the mechanic arts of Minting. Being specially fitted, by natural genius
as well as education, for the position which he adorned, his mildness,
integrity, gentlemanly bearing and high moral and mental culture
constituted him a model officer. His connection with the service lasted
until 1854. He died on the 5th of May, 1870.

GEORGE K. CHILDS, appointed December 12, 1854.

LEWIS R. BROOMALL, appointed June 30, 1861.

JOHN G. BUTLER, appointed November 30, 1863.

A. LOUDON SNOWDEN, appointed October 1, 1866.

(For sketch of A. Loudon Snowden, see list of Directors and
Superintendents, page 92.)

COLONEL O. C. BOSBYSHELL. On the 4th of May, 1869, Ex-Governor Pollock,
then Director of the Mint, appointed Col. Bosbyshell Register of
Deposits. His course in the Mint was so satisfactory that, without
solicitation, he was made assistant coiner by Col. A. L. Snowden, the
then coiner, on the 1st of October, 1872. Upon Col. Snowden’s appointment
as Postmaster of Philadelphia, Col. Bosbyshell was appointed Coiner of
the Mint by President Grant, on the 15th of December, 1876, and remained
in that capacity until January, 1885, when, to the regret of all parties
having business relations with him, he tendered his resignation to accept
a responsible position in the Controller’s Office, tendered him by his
friend, Col. Robert P. Dechert.

WILLIAM S. STEEL was born in the City of Philadelphia, on the 1st of
March, 1841. He received a good common school education, and in 1856
entered the office of David Cooper & Co., at Girard’s wharves, remaining
engaged in mercantile pursuits till 1861. At 19 years of age he was
appointed by Colonel James Ross Snowden, then Director of the United
States Mint, First Assistant Weigh Clerk. In this position he served
continuously through Colonel J. Ross Snowden, ex-Governor Pollock, and
Colonel A. Loudon Snowden’s administrations. In September, 1862, just
before the battle of Antietam, Mr. Steele entered the State service,
and served with the Thirty-second Regiment, Pennsylvania Volunteers,
until discharged by expiration of term. When Colonel A. Loudon Snowden
was transferred to the Post Office, January, 1877, Mr. Steele, upon the
recommendation of the then Coiner, Colonel O. C. Bosbyshell, became
Assistant Coiner, a position he filled in a most acceptable manner, until
Colonel Bosbyshell’s retirement in February, 1885, when he was made
Coiner.

HARRY A. CHESTER, Assistant Coiner, was born in Philadelphia (Northern
Liberties), September 10, 1852, and educated in the North East
School, Sixth Section. He was an attachee of the National House of
Representatives from 1876 to 1882, clerk in Register of Wills’ Office
from January 1, 1883, until May, 1885, when he was appointed by Colonel
A. Loudon Snowden as Assistant Weigh Clerk, and promoted by Hon. Daniel
M. Fox in October, 1886.

DR. HENRY LEFFMANN was appointed Chief Coiner at the Philadelphia Mint
January 10, 1888, by President Cleveland. Dr. Leffmann was born in
Philadelphia September 9, 1847, and was educated in the public schools of
Philadelphia, including four years at the Central High School. He devoted
three years in practical study in the laboratory of Dr. Charles M.
Cresson, and graduated at Jefferson Medical College in 1869, having been
for some years assistant to the Professor of Chemistry at the College,
and in 1875 was elected Lecturer on Toxicology, which position he held
for a number of years. In 1876 he was elected to take charge of the
laboratory of the Central High School, and remained in that position for
four years. In 1883 he was elected Professor of Chemistry and Metallurgy
in the Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery, a position which he still
holds; and he has been for a number of years Professor of Chemistry and
Mineralogy in the Wagner Free Institute of Science. Dr. Leffmann has
been engaged as chemical expert in patent and criminal cases, notably
in the Goerson poisoning case and the chrome-yellow poisoning cases. He
is a member of several American and foreign scientific societies, has
contributed papers to current scientific literature, and has for the past
five years been editor of _The Polyclinic_, a monthly medical journal.
In 1880 he was a candidate for Coroner on the Democratic ticket, but was
defeated, and in 1884 was appointed Port Physician for Philadelphia by
Governor Pattison, and held that position until October, 1887.


ASSAYERS.

JACOB R. ECKFELDT, Sixth Assayer, was born in Philadelphia, 1846. He
entered the Assay Department as Second Weigher, in 1865. By regular
promotions he reached the position of Assistant Assayer, in 1872,
and upon the death of his superior he was appointed and confirmed as
Assayer, December 21, 1881. The position of Assayer is one of great
responsibility, and demands not only scientific training but wide and
special knowledge and experience upon subjects relating to the history
and arts of Coinage. Since the foundation of the Mint there have been but
six official heads of this department.

WILLIAM MCINTIRE was born in Delaware in 1831. He entered the Assay
Department of the Mint as an assistant in September, 1853, which position
he held, with the exception of a short interim while he was engaged in
mercantile business, until October, 1887, when by regular promotion he
was appointed Assistant Assayer.


JACOB R. ECKFELDT.

EXTRACT FROM AN OBITUARY NOTICE BY MR. DU BOIS.

(_Read before the American Philosophical Society, Oct. 4th, 1872._)

    Jacob R. Eckfeldt, late Assayer of the Mint, was the son of
    Adam and Margaretta Eckfeldt, and was born in Philadelphia,
    March —, 1803. He was, therefore, in his seventieth year, at
    the time of decease, August 9th, 1872.

    In the Spring of 1832, Mr. John Richardson, who had been
    Assayer about one year, and did not find the employment
    congenial to his tastes, informed Mr. Eckfeldt that he intended
    to resign, and wished him to prepare to take the place. Mr. E.
    shrank from this responsibility, and declined. But some of his
    friends who had influence with President Jackson, presented his
    name with a strong recommendation and he was appointed without
    being asked as to his party preferences. This occurred on the
    30th of April, 1832. He therefore held the office _over forty
    years_.

    When he entered upon the work, he had to encounter some
    embarrassments. The apparatus was old-fashioned, and not
    calculated for nice results. The silver assay had been well
    performed, without going to a close figure, for many years; but
    gold was little known in the country or at the Mint, and it
    is not surprising that its assay was incorrectly performed.
    Add to this, there was the coarse and cumbrous nomenclature,
    brought from the old country, of carats and grains for gold
    fineness, and so many grains to the pound for silver fineness.

    Close upon all this, that is to say, in June, 1834, came the
    celebrated reduction in the standards of our gold coin, one of
    the chief measures of the Jackson administration. This changed
    gold from a curiosity to a currency; bullion and foreign
    coin flowed to the mint, and accuracy of assay was more than
    ever needful. Mr. Eckfeldt was equal to the emergency, and
    resolutely introduced reforms, which, at first, made the older
    officers stand in doubt.

    In those days, about the time the new mint edifice on Chestnut
    street was finishing, Mr. Peale was sent to London and Paris
    to observe the methods of assaying and refining, and to
    procure a new apparatus. We were thus supplied with French
    beams, weights, and cupel furnaces, and with the appliances
    of Gay-Lussac’s humid assay, and the printed details of the
    process. Soon after, Mr. Saxton, famous for his skill in
    constructing balances and other delicate instruments, returned
    from a long schooling in that line in London, and was employed
    in the Mint. Thus furnished, Mr. Eckfeldt felt himself “set
    up,” and able to compete with the foreign assayers, and if he
    was ever more precise, it was because he disregarded certain
    allowances which had become a time-honored custom.

    A large importation of fine gold bars from France, known as
    the French Indemnity, and which came because President Jackson
    declared he “would submit to nothing that was wrong,” gave a
    fine opportunity for testing and comparing foreign assays; and
    it was generally found that these bars were somewhat below
    the alleged fineness. A still more important discovery, was
    the fact that British Sovereigns ran below their standard of
    fineness. This happened when he had been in office less than
    three years, and the Director was unwilling to set the finding
    of young Eckfeldt against the experience of Old England.
    The Assayer being assured and re-assured of the accuracy of
    his results, Director Moore consented to notify the British
    Government of their error. The result was a closer scrutiny in
    the London Mint, and a final acknowledgement that they were
    wrong. This was no less a triumph for Mr. Eckfeldt, than it was
    a contribution to exact science, and an honor to the American
    Government.

    It is not surprising, that he felt at first the inconvenience
    of passing from one form of nomenclature to another, though to
    a better one. A friend remarks, “I recall conversations with
    Mr. Eckfeldt, showing how seriously he felt the revolution. He
    would _think_ in carats, and _report_ in decimals. And I often
    recur to this as illustrating the kind of difficulties which
    would arise in case of a decimalising of weights and measures.”

    For some years prior to 1842, Mr. Eckfeldt and his Assistant,
    in addition to their ordinary duties, engaged in the
    preparation of an original and comprehensive work on the Coins
    of all Nations; on the Varieties of Gold and Silver Bullion; on
    Counterfeit Coins, and on other subjects related thereto. This
    was published in 1842, and has long been regarded as a standard
    authority. In 1850, they issued a supplementary smaller work,
    and again in 1852.

    As the United States increased in commerce, wealth and
    population, the Mint of course increased in work. In
    particular, Mexican dollars came in great quantities for
    recoinage. Not only were our vaults full, but our entries and
    corridors were at times crowded with rows of kegs. Every day,
    for years, we had the constant task of sixteen melts of silver
    ingots to melt and assay; and it was a great advantage and
    satisfaction to be supplied with the _humid_ apparatus.

    The success of gold mining in our Southern States, and
    the increasing commerce of New Orleans, gave rise to the
    establishment of three branch mints at the South, in 1837;
    and it devolved upon Mr. Eckfeldt to become schoolmaster, and
    educate the three assayers appointed for those places. The same
    had to be done again at a later date for other mints and assay
    offices.

    In December, 1848, came the first lot of gold grains from
    California; and with the opening of the next year the tide
    set in most powerfully. I shall not here speak of this great
    turning-point in metallic currency any further than as it
    affected the mint, or rather the labor which it laid upon
    Mr. Eckfeldt and his department. As is well known, the lots
    were numerous, and the aggregate amount was enormous. Instead
    of making gold assays by dozens, we had to go through with
    hundreds every day, following the arrival of each steamer.
    We procured young men as operators in the weigh-room and
    additional workmen in the laboratory; and in spite all the
    help we were overworked. Here let me say that the persons who
    have been educated by Mr. Eckfeldt to this profession have
    done credit to the selection that was made, not only by skill,
    diligence, and good character while here, but wherever they are
    now scattered to other mints and assay offices, or to different
    pursuits.

    The gold pressure continued for about five years, when it was
    relieved by the creation of a Government assay office in New
    York, and a branch mint at San Francisco. But directly sequent
    to this came the change of standard in silver coin, causing
    an immense recoinage in small pieces. Thus our daily assays
    continued to count by hundreds. This lasted for some years.
    When it began to slacken off, a law was passed for calling in
    the large copper coins and issuing in their stead pieces of
    copper-nickel alloy of much smaller size.

    The analysis of Nickel alloys was not well laid down in
    the books, and the European or other assays which came
    with purchased lots showed an incorrect determination. Mr.
    Eckfeldt was therefore obliged to study out and perfect this
    assay, which is more tedious and laborious, though of less
    consequence, than the assay of the precious metals.

    But it was his habit to be as scrupulous in minor matters as
    in major; and after the routine was well settled it went on
    with the same clockwork regularity as the other branches of
    assaying. I need not say that this nickel coinage imposed
    another heavy pressure upon the mint for years.

    After this came the substitution of the Bronze alloy; and this
    called for another process of assay, and brought us a great
    deal of work.

    I thus hastily review this sequence of gold, silver, nickel,
    and bronze, not only as an interesting part of Mint History,
    but to show the varied and abundant services of the untiring,
    energetic Principal Assayer, and the masterly skill with which
    he met every obligation.

    His skill and success as an Assayer and Analyst largely
    consisted in his power of finding out what was defective or
    erroneous, and in applying the proper remedy. It often seemed
    that what was a puzzle to others was to him a matter of quick
    insight.

    In the assays of certain complex alloys, and of low grades of
    gold and silver, he contrived various methods which are not in
    print, but which are of great use in the daily manipulations.

    And here I may state that he not only introduced great accuracy
    and precision in the assays, but carried special investigations
    to a delicacy almost incredible. Thus, much interest was
    excited by a publication some years ago, both in this country
    and across the Atlantic, of his experiment upon the brick-clay
    which underlies our city. Taking two samples from the center of
    the town and the suburbs he found they contained gold at the
    rate of nearly 12 grains (say fifty cents) to the ton of clay
    in its ordinary moisture. Other experiments went to prove the
    very general diffusion of gold, in infinitesimal proportions.

    Some analysts, through want of exactitude, or for the pleasure
    of making a sensation, may produce very curious results;
    but Mr. Eckfeldt was conscientious, I may say, nervously
    scrupulous, about stating anything he was not sure of. Partly
    for that reason, partly for the very love of work, he was
    laborious to a fault, all his life long.


UNITED STATES MINT OFFICERS.

  Washington, D. C., James P. Kimball, Director of the Mint      $4,500
  Philadelphia, Pa., Daniel M. Fox, Superintendent                4,500
  Boise City, Idaho, Norman H. Camp                               2,000
  Carson City, Nevada, James Crawford, Superintendent             3,000
  Charlotte, N. C., Calvin J. Cowles, Assayer                     1,500
  Denver, Colorado, Herman Silver, Assayer                        2,500
  Helena, Montana, Russell B. Harrison, Assayer                   2,500
  New Orleans, La., Andrew W. Smyth, Superintendent               3,500
  New York, N. Y., Andrew Mason, Superintendent                   4,500
  San Francisco, Cal., Edw. F. Burton, Superintendent             4,500
  St. Louis, Mo., Eliot C. Jewett, Assayer                        2,500


WILLIAM E. DU BOIS.

Extract from an obituary notice by Robert Patterson.

(Read before the American Philosophical Society, November 18, 1881.)

    William Ewing Du Bois was born at Doylestown, Pennsylvania,
    December 15, 1810. Through his father, Rev. Uriah Du Bois,
    he was descended from Louis Du Bois, a French Huguenot of
    honorable extraction, who emigrated to America in 1660,
    seeking freedom of religious worship, and, in connection with
    others of his countrymen, formed the settlement of New Paltz,
    Ulster County, New York. Through his mother, Martha Patterson,
    daughter of Professor Robert Patterson, of the University of
    Pennsylvania, he inherited the Scotch-Irish element which
    has exerted so marked an influence in the development of our
    country.

    The father of Mr. Du Bois was a Presbyterian clergyman, in
    charge of churches in and near Doylestown, and was principal of
    the Union Academy at that place, a classical school then and
    afterwards of high reputation. He was greatly respected, both
    as preacher and teacher.

    The bright and studious mind of Mr. Du Bois gathered every
    advantage from his opportunities, and he was well furnished in
    the classics and mathematics, and in English literature. While
    yet a boy he developed a freedom and capacity as a writer quite
    remarkable.

    His oldest brother was an eminent member of the bar, and it
    seemed fitting that Mr. Du Bois should, under his guidance,
    adopt the law as his profession. He accordingly pursued the
    usual course, in the meantime aiding to support himself by
    literary work and conveyancing, and was admitted to practice
    in September, 1832. But his health failing him on account of
    a bronchial affection, he accepted an appointment in the Mint
    at Philadelphia, and thus began the life-work by which his
    reputation was established.

    Mr. Du Bois entered the Mint in September, 1833, and was
    first employed in the office of the Director, Dr. Moore. In
    1835, at the request of the Assayer, Mr. Jacob R. Eckfeldt,
    he was transferred to a more congenial position in the assay
    department. Here he continued for the remainder of his life. In
    1836 he was appointed Assistant Assayer. In September, 1872, he
    succeeded Mr. Eckfeldt as Assayer, and remained at the head of
    the department until his death, July 14, 1881, thus completing
    nearly forty-eight years of Mint service.

    Mr. Du Bois early took rank as an accomplished assayer, and
    long before his death had reached the head of his profession.

    The close intimacy between Mr. Du Bois and Mr. Eckfeldt
    developed into warm friendship. The tie was made closer by
    the marriage of Mr. Du Bois, in 1840, to Susanna Eckfeldt,
    the sister of his chief. I shall have to speak of published
    works and scientific communications appearing under the names
    of Eckfeldt and Du Bois. Although it was understood that Mr.
    Du Bois was the sole literary author, yet no separate claim
    of authorship was made by either. Whatever of reputation was
    earned, each was contented that it might be shared by the
    other, and jealousy never for a moment weakened a union that
    bound them for life.

    In the year 1834 a change took place in the ratio of gold to
    silver in the standard of U. S. coins, the effect of which
    was to bring large deposits of gold to the Mint. The coinage
    previously had been chiefly of silver. The more equal supply of
    the precious metals gave active employment in the assay of each
    of them, and was, of course, most valuable as an experience
    to Mr. Du Bois, who about this time became connected with the
    assay department.

    In 1837, on revision of the Mint laws and standards brought
    about by Dr. Robert M. Patterson, then Director, a reform was
    effected in the method of reporting assays, the millesimal
    system taking the place of the time-honored but cumbrous
    method of carats and grains. About this time, also, the older
    plan of assaying silver was abandoned, the humid assay being
    substituted, and largely worked under the direct supervision of
    Mr. Du Bois.

    About 1838 branch mints were organized in the States of
    Louisiana, Georgia, and North Carolina. The labors and
    responsibilities of the Philadelphia assay department were
    increased by this development, partly from the necessity of
    instructing assayers for the new branches, and partly in
    testing the correctness of the assays made there.

    In 1848 the great discovery of gold in California was made
    known. This brought a tremendous pressure on every department
    of the Mint, and not the least on the assayers. The gold
    coinage was, in three years, raised from a little over three
    million dollars to more than sixty-two millions. The assays
    were often counted by hundreds in a day. But whatever the
    pressure in the office, accuracy ruled, and the correctness of
    the assays was never impeached.

    In 1853 a change was effected in the law for providing
    subordinate silver coins. This brought about, for some years
    succeeding, an unprecedented coinage of that metal, and still
    further increased the labors of the assay department.

    He instituted the Cabinet of coins which now adorns the Mint.
    This was commenced in 1838. A small annual appropriation
    was procured from Congress for this purpose, and the work
    of collection committed entirely to Mr. Du Bois. He brought
    to it all the enthusiasm which animates most numismatists,
    sobered, however, by good judgment. His expenditures were
    always judicious. Some of the best of the specimens were culled
    from the Mint deposits for the bullion value, merely, of the
    pieces. After the collection had taken good shape, and been
    well classified, he wrote and published, in 1846, a description
    of it, under the title “Pledges of History,” etc. The title
    thus selected intimated his opinion as to the real value of
    such collections. He thought that a coin should be prized for
    its historical teaching, or artistic merit, and discouraged the
    rage to possess a piece simply because of its rarity. Mr. Du
    Bois acted as curator of the Cabinet until his death.

    Another important labor undertaken by Mr. Du Bois (in
    connection with Mr. Eckfeldt) was the preparation and
    publication, in 1842, of a “Manual of the Gold and Silver Coins
    of all nations, struck within the past century.” This was a
    work of very great labor, and, from its expense, of some risk
    also to the authors. It is admirably arranged, the information
    clear, and it embraced every subject of interest at that
    date as to coins, bullion, counterfeits, etc. Subsequently,
    in 1850 and 1851, supplements were published covering later
    topics, made prominent in consequence of the California gold
    discoveries.

    The writings of Mr. Du Bois were numerous, and continued up to
    the year of his death. His papers on numismatics were frequent
    and always attractive, his last appearance in print being
    in April of this year, in an article on the “Coinage of the
    Popes.” To the “American Philosophical Society,” of which he
    was elected a member in 1844, he made various communications on
    behalf of Mr. Eckfeldt and himself, mostly on topics suggested
    by experiences in the assay department. Among the most curious
    was one on “The Natural Dissemination of Gold,” by which we
    were astonished to learn that this precious metal is found in
    appreciable quantity in the clays underlying our city.

    In 1869 he wrote for the “Bankers’ Magazine,” “Propositions
    for a Revised System of Weights, and a Restoration of Silver
    Currency.” The development of his views on these subjects
    is a model of clear exposition, and the conclusions reached
    were such as might be expected from a mind aiming to attain
    practical results rather than to impose visionary theories.

    From the beginning he was highly esteemed at the Mint. It was
    his ambition to acquire a knowledge of every branch of the
    service, and with his capacity and opportunities this end was
    attained. He early became the trusted friend and counsellor
    of his colleagues, and was able to serve them in many ways,
    perhaps most of all with his ready pen. As time passed, and
    forty-eight years of experience was given to him, he was
    recognized by all as the Nestor of the Mint service. And here I
    pause to draw a lesson, from the example of Mr. Du Bois’s life,
    as to the value of a properly organized civil service. In the
    department with which he was connected, political tests were
    never obtruded, and permanence of tenure followed on merit.
    On no other basis could his services have been claimed or
    retained. They would have been transferred to a private sphere,
    probably to his pecuniary gain, certainly to the public loss.
    He was very accessible, and ever ready to lend aid from the
    stores of his knowledge, but in particular did he delight to
    instruct and bring forward his younger friends.

    Mr. Du Bois was able to fulfill his official duties until
    within a few months of his death. He was fully conscious of his
    approaching end, preserving his intelligence to the last, and
    the faith which had comforted him in this life supported him at
    its close.

    The following minute was adopted at a meeting of the officers
    and employees after his decease:

    “The remarkably close conformity of the United States coins to
    the standard assigned them by law, has been recognized by the
    highest Mint authorities of the world to be unsurpassed, if
    quite equalled, in its uniform exactness. The founding of such
    a reputation and its continuance during the last half-century,
    are largely due to the joint labors of the late Jacob R.
    Eckfeldt and William E. Du Bois.”


MELTERS AND REFINERS.

JOSEPH CLOUD, appointed January, 1797; served until January, 1836 (39
years).

FRANKLIN PEALE, appointed January 5, 1836.

JONAS R. MCCLINTOCK, appointed February 19, 1840.

RICHARD S. MCCULLOCH, appointed in April, 1846; served until April 1,
1849.

JAMES CURTIS BOOTH, Melter and Refiner, was born in Philadelphia in
1810, educated in the same place, and graduated in the University of
Pennsylvania 1829. After study and field practice in the Rensselaer
School, at Troy, N. Y., in 1831-32, under the late Professor A. Eaton,
Mr. Booth studied Practical Chemistry in Germany, in 1833-34-35, in the
laboratories of Professors F. Wohler and G. Magnus, and in visiting
accessible manufacturing establishments in Germany and England having
relation to chemistry. The late Prof. J. F. Frazer and Mr. Booth were
the two Assistants on the Geological Survey of Pennsylvania in its
first year, 1836. Mr. Booth next had charge of the Geological Survey of
Delaware in 1837-38 (being often assisted by Prof. Frazer), and published
his report on the survey in 1839-40.

Mr. Booth, observing the great deficiency in the knowledge of Applied
Chemistry in his native place, opened a laboratory for teaching the same,
by chemical analysis and by operating, in 1836, and the same laboratory
has been continued successfully to the present time by Dr. T. H. Garrett
and Mr. A. Blair.

With the same object in view, Mr. Booth lectured at the Franklin
Institute for nine successive winters, giving three full courses of
lectures, each of three winters’ duration (1836-1845).

Prior to 1850 Mr. Booth published the Encyclopædia of Chemistry, being
the author of the majority of the articles contained in it, with valuable
contributions by Prof. R. S. McCulloch and others. It was a valuable
adjunct to the study of chemistry for many years.

The Director and officers of the Mint unsuccessfully solicited the
appointment of Mr. Booth as Melter and Refiner of the Mint in 1838-40,
but in 1849 Mr. Booth obtained, through his friend, Mr. Meredith, the
appointment, over the signature of President Z. Taylor, and has continued
in the same position from that date to 1887, a period of more than
thirty-six years. He resigned his office at the close of the year 1887.

DR. DAVID K. TUTTLE, of the Carson City Mint, appointed Melter and
Refiner January 10, 1888.

NATHANIEL B. BOYD, Assistant Melter and Refiner, was born in
Philadelphia, January, 1832. Twenty years later, he was graduated with
honors at Burlington College. After leaving College he studied law, and
was admitted to the Philadelphia Bar in 1854. In 1869 he accepted an
appointment in the National Mint, tendered him by Director Pollock. In
1873 he was appointed Assistant Melter and Refiner, a position which he
still occupies (1885).


THE MINT ENGRAVERS.

(Extract from Patterson Du Bois’ Biographical Sketch of “Our Mint
Engravers.”)

Whatever may be said concerning the peculiar responsibilities of the
officers of the Mint, who are occupied with the various operations of
turning bullion into coin, it must be conceded that none of them occupies
a position so dubious and, in some ways, so unenviable as the Engraver.
In the general transactions of the Mint, he is the most retired—the most
obscure—of its officers; yet his card is in every one’s pocket.

As to the types of coinage, the standards are as numerous as the eyes
that water for them, and there is no piece but may be said to be outside
of _somebody’s_ tolerance. No other artist undergoes such an ordeal, for
those who do not admire this painting or that statue are not compelled to
hug and hoard it, much less to toil for its possession. The engraver who
can, from his retired window, see the critical millions clutching for his
little _relievos_, is in some sort a hero _ex-officio_, and it has been
well suggested that we look briefly upon the uneventful lives of this
worthy line of officers.

I. Robert Scot received his appointment as the first Engraver of the
Mint, November 23, 1793. Information is wanting as to his nativity,
but at the time of his appointment he seems to have been turning the
down-hill of life. He is remembered as rather under size, and as an
honorable and agreeable gentleman.

According to Loubat, Joseph Wright was “appointed first a draughtsman
and die-sinker to the United States Mint, and made the dies of a medal,
the bust on the obverse of which was considered to be the best medallic
profile likeness of Washington.[21] He also made the medal voted by
Congress to Major Lee.” Wright died in 1793.

II. William Kneass, second of the line, was born in Lancaster, Pa.,
September, 1781, and was appointed Engraver January 29, 1824. Mr. Kneass
had been chiefly a plate engraver for book-work. There were some changes
in the coinage during his term, notably in 1834 and 1838, for gold, and
1836, 1837, 1838, and 1840, for silver. But some of this work was done by
Gobrecht as assistant. Kneass appears upon a pattern half dollar of 1838;
but the silver dollar of 1836, as well as a pattern half of 1838, were
the work of his assistant. Prior to his appointment he had an engraving
office on Fourth above Chestnut street, Philadelphia, which was a
well-known rendezvous for the leading wits and men of culture, for which
Philadelphia was then eminent.

Mr. Kneass died in office, August 27, 1840. A good engraving of him hangs
in the Assayer’s Office, inscribed “to his friend Adam Eckfeldt, Chief
Coiner,”—who had been chiefly instrumental in securing his appointment.

III. Christian Gobrecht was appointed December 21, 1840, to fill the
vacancy made by the death of Kneass. He was born in Hanover, York Co.,
Pa., December 23, 1785. In 1811 he went to Philadelphia, and became an
engraver of bank notes, seals, calico printers’ rolls, bookbinders’ dies,
etc. In 1836 he received an appointment as assistant to Mr. Kneass at
the Mint, in which capacity he executed some important work. Among other
similar performances he was highly commended for his Franklin Institute
Medal.

Christian Gobrecht continued in office until his death, July 23, 1844.

IV. James B. Longacre was born August 11, 1794, in Delaware Co., Pa.
He served an apprenticeship as a line engraver with George Murray,
Philadelphia, and did some high class plate-work before he was free, in
1819. He was one of the originators of the _National Portrait Gallery of
Distinguished Americans_, the first volume of which appeared in 1834.
Longacre drew from life and engraved many of the portraits entire.

Like his predecessors, he died in office—January 1, 1869. During his
term Mr. Longacre was variously assisted by P. F. Cross, William Barber,
Anthony C. Paquet, and William H. Key. Cross was born in Sheffield,
England, served several years in the Mint here, and died in 1856. He
engraved the obverse of the Ingraham medal. Paquet was born in Hamburg,
1814, emigrated 1848, served as assistant 1857 to 1864, died, 1882.
He engraved the medals of Grant, Johnson, Buchanan, Everett, and the
Life Saving Medals, with some others. Key is a native of Brooklyn, was
appointed an assistant, 1864, and is still in the service. He executed
the Kane Expedition and Archbishop Wood Medals. The changes and additions
during the Longacre term were numerous and important, both as to alloys
and denominations. The pattern pieces also record various experiments in
the art of coining.

V. William Barber, fifth Engraver of the Mint, was born in London, May
2, 1807. He learned his profession from his father, John Barber, and was
employed on silver-plate work, after his emigration to this country.

He resided in Boston ten years, and was variously employed in his line
of work. His skill in this way came to the knowledge of Mr. Longacre,
then Engraver of the Mint, and he secured his services as an assistant in
1865.

In January, 1869, upon the death of Mr. Longacre, he was appointed as his
successor, and continued in that position for the remainder of his life.
His death, which resulted from severe chills, brought on by bathing at
the seashore, occurred in Philadelphia, August 31, 1879.

Besides much original work on pattern coins, he also produced over forty
medals, public and private. The work on all of them was creditable, but
we may specify those of Agassiz, Rittenhouse, and Henry, as very superior
specimens of art. Mr. Barber was assisted by Mr. William H. Key, Mr.
Charles E. Barber, and Mr. George T. Morgan.

VI. Charles E. Barber, sixth Engraver, is a son of the preceding, and was
born in London in 1840. He was appointed an assistant in 1869, and became
the official head by promotion in 1880, to fill the vacancy caused by his
father’s death. The appointment was not unmerited. One of Mr. Barber’s
latest cards to the public is the new five-cent piece—a successful
venture in very low relief. But his handiwork is more or less visible in
all the principal medals executed since 1869. Since his appointment as
Chief Engraver, the work of his department has been enormously increased
by the number of medal dies demanded for the War Department and from
other Government sources. Mr. Barber’s best work is seen in the medals of
Presidents Garfield, Arthur, Indian Peace, Army Marksmanship, and Great
Seal. He is particularly happy in “catching a likeness.” The head of
Superintendent Snowden is a rare specimen of medallic portraiture.[22]

Messrs. Key and Morgan are the Engraver’s assistants. The former has
already received notice; the latter, Mr. George T. Morgan, was born in
Birmingham, England, in 1845; he studied at the Art School there, and won
a National Scholarship at the South Kensington, where he was a student
two years. He is best known to the country by the so-called “Bland
dollar,” which is his design and execution.

We have reason to congratulate both the Government and the people that
the engraving service is well and judiciously furnished.


BENJAMIN RUSH,

An eminent physician and philanthropist, was born near Philadelphia,
December 24, 1745; he graduated from Princeton College in 1760; he
afterwards studied medicine in Edinburgh, London, and Paris; returning
to this country, he was elected Professor of Chemistry in the Medical
College of Philadelphia in 1769. In 1776 he was elected to the
Continental Congress, and was one of the signers of the Declaration
of Independence in the same year; he was afterwards appointed
Surgeon-General of Revolutionary Army, and voted for the adoption of
the Constitution of the United States in 1787. Dr. Rush was a popular
lecturer, and eminently qualified as a teacher of medicine. When the
yellow fever scourged the City, and the public buildings were closed in
1799 and 1800, he was very successful in his treatment of the victims
of that epidemic. It is said that he visited and prescribed for one
hundred patients in a single day. He was treasurer of the first United
States Mint during the last fourteen years of his life. Dr. Rush died in
Philadelphia in April, 1813. Among his nine children was Richard Rush,
the statesman.

NOTE.—Dr. Rush was the author of the first pamphlet on temperance
published in this country, showing the injurious effects of alcoholic
drinks on the human system, and is justly regarded as the father of the
temperance movement, the Centennial of which has lately been celebrated
throughout the United States, September, 1885.


CASHIER.

MARK H. COBB, the Cashier of the Mint from 1871 until the present time
(1885), was born in Colebrook, Connecticut, in 1828. In 1861, Hon. Simon
Cameron, then Secretary of War, appointed him Chief Clerk in the War
Department, he having previously been his private secretary. After Mr.
Cameron’s resignation as Secretary, Mr. Cobb, at the solicitation of the
late Col. John W. Forney, accepted the position of Enrolling Clerk of the
United States Senate in 1862. In 1871 he was appointed to the responsible
position of Cashier in the United States Mint.

ALBION COX, first assayer of the Mint was appointed April 4, 1794. His
commission, signed by Washington, until recently, hung upon the walls of
the assay office. But little is known of Mr. Cox, save that he was an
Englishman by birth, and a good officer, as appears from the following
report to the Secretary of the Treasury made by Director Boudinot, under
date, December 3, 1795. He says: “The sudden and unexpected death of the
assayer, Mr. Albion Cox, on Fryday last by an apoplectic fit, deprived
the Mint of an intelligent officer, essentially necessary to the future
progress in the coinage of the precious metals. Until this officer is
replaced, the business at the Mint must be confined to striking cents
only.”

He therefore held office about a year and eight months.

Joseph Richardson, second assayer, was appointed December 12, 1795. He
belonged to an old Quaker family distinguished for ability and character.
Mr. Richardson fulfilled the duties of his office with credit and honor.
He died in March, 1831. A water color portrait of him, dressed in plain
Quaker garb, hangs in the assayers’ room. He held office over thirty-five
years.

John Richardson, son of the preceding, was appointed assayer March 31,
1831. Finding the office not congenial with his tastes, and so subjecting
him to undue responsibilities, he resigned April, 1832, holding office
only a little over a year.


CURATOR.

R. A. MCCLURE, a gentleman skilled in the science of numismatics, was
appointed Assistant Curator of the Coin Cabinet in 1868, and, upon the
death of the Assayer and Chief Curator in 1881, the responsibilities of
the Curatorship fell upon Mr. McClure.




STANDARD WEIGHTS.


The earliest series of standard weights now known, are two sets
discovered by Mr. Layard in the ruins of Nineveh. They are now in the
British Museum. William the Conqueror decreed the continuance, as the
legal standard, of the pound in use by the Saxons. This and other
standards of weight and measure were removed by the King from the City of
Winchester to the Exchequer at Westminster, and placed in a consecrated
building in charge of his chamberlains. The place of deposit is said
to have been the crypt chapel of Edward the Confessor, in Westminster
Abbey. In 1866 the office of Exchequer was abolished, and the Standards
Department of the Board of Trade was established in London, assuming
charge of the standards—an arrangement still in force.

The old Saxon pound was the earliest standard of England. It was
identical in weight with the old apothecaries’ pound of Germany,
and equal to 5,400 of our later Troy grains. The pound sterling was
determined from this weight in silver. Henry III., in 1266, decreed the
following standards: The sterling, or penny, to weigh equal to thirty-two
wheat corns, taken from the middle of the ear; twenty pence, one ounce;
twelve ounces, one pound; eight pounds, one gallon of wine, which is
the eighth part of a quarter. The idea of the grain was borrowed by the
English from the French, and the Black Prince brought back with him from
France the pound Troye, which was derived from the commercial town of
that name. The use of the Troy standard was adopted by the druggists and
jewelers, on account of its convenient reduction into grains.

The pound avoirdupois, weighing 7,000 grains Troy, (Fr. _Avoir-du-poids_,
“to have weight”), first appears in use during the reign of Edward III.,
and it, as well as the Troy pound, has been employed without change ever
since. In the year 1834 the English standards of weight and measure,
consisting of a yard and pound Troy of brass, were destroyed by fire at
the burning of the Houses of Parliament. A few years later a commission
of scientific men was appointed to determine upon the restoration of
the standards. This resulted in a succession of difficult problems
resultant upon the oxidation to a greater or less extent of duplicates
of the standard still existing, as also of the variation of the cubic
inch of water, as in use in different lands. A cubic inch of distilled
water, weighed in air against brass weights, at a temperature of 62
degrees Fahr., the barometer being at 30 inches, had been determined by
scientific men to be equal to 252.458 grains, of which the standard Troy
pound contained 5,760.

As the unit of length was also lost, a series of experiments was made in
the vibration of a pendulum in a vacuum, marking seconds of mean time
in the latitude of London at the level of the sea. These deductions,
however, failed to be satisfactory, and the commission was compelled to
fall back upon the best preserved of the duplicate standards existent.
The Imperial Standard Pound is declared to be the true weight of an
avoirdupois pound in a vacuum. It is a curious fact that the Imperial
standards of platinum (which metal is not subject to oxidation), although
balancing brass weights in a vacuum, weigh in air more than one-half a
grain heavier than the latter. This is due to their greater displacement
of space.

The unit of weight in the United States is a Troy pound weight obtained
from England, a duplicate of the original standard fixed by the
commission of 1758, and reasserted by the commission of 1838. It is a
bronze weight of 5,760 grains Troy. It is kept in a strong safe at the
United States Mint, in Philadelphia. The President appoints an assay
commission, whose members meet at Philadelphia annually, upon the second
Wednesday in February, open the safe, and compare the copies, or the
working weights, with the original upon the most delicately poised
balances. Working standards of weights and measures are supplied by the
Secretary of State to the State governments, which in turn supply them to
the sealers of weights and measures of the various countries, who must
compare with the State standard once a year.

[Illustration: TROY STANDARD POUND WEIGHT.

Fac-simile, exact size.]

All of the scales and delicate test instruments in use by the government,
not only in Philadelphia Mint, but at the several branch mints, are
manufactured in this country, and as examples of wonderful mechanical
machines of minute accuracy they lead the world. Some of them are the
work of Mr. Henry Troemner, of Philadelphia, to whom, it is proper to
say, the writer is largely indebted for the facts given in this article.
Mr. Troemner, in the capacity of government expert, makes frequent visits
to the most distant points in the Union for the verification of national
standards. The Treasury Department made an especial request of him to
exhibit at the New Orleans Exposition, a line of his fine balances.




EXTRACT FROM CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES.


    ARTICLE I., Sect. 8. The Congress shall have power ... to coin
    money, regulate the value thereof and of foreign coins, and fix
    the standard of weights and measures, ... to provide for the
    punishment of counterfeiting the securities and current coin of
    the United States.

    ARTICLE I. Sect. 2. No State shall ... coin money, emit bills
    of credit, make anything but gold and silver coin a tender in
    payment of debts, ...


Coinage, fiscal year 1887.

  ---------------+------------+---------------
    Description. |  Pieces.   |    Value.
  ---------------+------------+---------------
  Gold           |  3,724,720 | $22,393,279.00
  Silver         | 44,231,288 |  34,366,483.75
  Minor Coins    | 50,166,509 |     943,650.65
  ---------------+------------+---------------
       Total     | 98,122,517 | $57,703,413.40
  ---------------+------------+----------------


Total number of Coinage Dies made during the year 1887.

  Gold coinage        120
  Silver coinage      359
  Minor coinage       684
  Proof coinage        27


Bullion for the Silver Dollar Coinage, 1887.

  --------------------------------------+---------------+---------------
                                        |   Standard    |
            Mode of acquisition.        |    ounces.    |     Cost.
  --------------------------------------+---------------+---------------
  Purchases, Treasury Department,       |               |
    Bureau of the Mint                  | 29,018,932.12 | $25,624,487.37
  Purchases by mint officers            |    282,626.95 |     249,150.73
  Partings, bar charges and fractions   |    131,783.20 |     114,982.36
                                        +---------------+----------------
      Total delivered on purchases      | 29,433,342.27 | $25,988,620.46
  Balance on hand July 1, 1886          |  3,258,495.66 |   2,960,969.02
                                        +---------------+----------------
  Available for coinage of silver       |               |
    dollars during the fiscal year 1887 | 32,691,837.93 | $28,949,589.48
  --------------------------------------+---------------+----------------


Value of the Gold and Silver (not including re-deposits) received at the
Mints and Assay Offices during the fiscal years 1880-1887.

  --------+------------+------------+-------------
   Fiscal |            |            |
   years. |   Gold.    |  Silver.   |   Total.
  --------+------------+------------+-------------
  1880    |$ 98,835,096| $34,640,522| $133,475,618
  1881    | 130,833,102|  30,791,146|  161,624,248
  1882    |  66,756,652|  33,720,491|  100,477,143
  1883    |  46,347,106|  36,869,834|   83,216,940
  1884    |  46,326,678|  36,520,290|   82,846,968
  1885    |  52,894,075|  36,789,774|   89,683,849
  1886    |  44,909,749|  35,494,183|   80,403,932
  1887    |  68,223,072|  47,756,918|  115,979,990
  --------+------------+------------+-------------


Silver Coins of the United States.

  ----------------+-------+-------+---------------+--------+---------------
                  |Coinage|       | Amount coined |Standard|Amount for
   Denominations. | com-  |Coinage|  to June 30,  | weight,| which a
                  |menced.|ceased.|     1884.     | grains.|legal tender.
  ----------------+-------+-------+---------------+--------+---------------
  Standard dollars|  1878 |       |$175,355,829.00|  412.5 | Unlimited.
  Trade dollars   |  1873 |  1878 |  35,959,360.00|  420.  | Not a legal
                  |       |       |               |        |  tender.
  Dollars         |  1793 |  1873 |   8,045,838.00|  412.5 | Unlimited.
  Half dollars    |  1793 |       | 122,765,735.00|  192.9 | Ten dollars.
  Quarter dollars |  1796 |       |  38,495,918.75|   96.45| Ten dollars.
  Twenty cents    |  1875 |  1878 |     271,000.00|   77.16| Five dollars.
  Dimes           |  1796 |       |  18,293,172.50|   38.58| Ten dollars.
  Half dimes      |  1793 |  1873 |   4,906,946.90|   19.29| Five dollars.
  Three cents     |  1851 |  1873 |   1,281,850.20|   11.52| Five dollars.
  ----------------+-------+-------+---------------+--------+---------------

[Illustration: FAC-SIMILE REPRODUCTIONS OF CONTINENTAL CURRENCY.]


Trade-Dollars Coined, Exported, Imported, Melted, and Redeemed (Act of
March 3, 1887).

  Coined:
    Mint at Philadelphia                           $5,107,024
    Mint at San Francisco                          26,647,000
    Mint at Carson                                  4,211,400
                                                  -----------
                                                               $35,965,924
  Exported                                         28,778,862
  Imported                                          1,706,020
                                                  -----------
    Net export                                                  27,072,842
                                                               -----------
                                                                 8,893,082
  Melted:

              { Previous to Redemption
              {   Act                      $915,346
  As bullion. { Excluded from
              {   redemption (mutilated
              {   pieces, etc.)               4,113
                                         ----------   919,459
              { Mint at Philadelphia      3,427,369
              { Mint at San Francisco       764,263
  Redeemed.   { Mint at New Orleans           1,871
              { Assay office at New York  3,495,533
                                         ----------
                       Total redeemed               7,689,036
                                                    ---------
                        Total melted                             8,608,495
                                                                 ---------

  Not accounted for and not presented for redemption;
    employed in the arts; specimen pieces in the hands
    of coin collectors, carried out by emigrants, and
    in miscellaneous deposits of coin remelted at mints, etc.     $284,587


GROSS PROFITS ON SILVER COINAGE IN 1887.

The seignorage or immediate gross profit on the coinage of silver
dollars—that is, the difference between the cost of the bullion and the
nominal value of the coins—during the fiscal year 1887, was $7,923,558.61.

The seignorage on subsidiary coin manufactured during the year was
$31,704.94, of which $1,130.65 was gained from the recoinage of old
subsidiary coins in the Treasury.

The total seignorage on the silver coinage during the fiscal year was
$7,955,263.55.

As stated in last fiscal report, the balance of silver profits remaining
in the coinage mints on the 1st July, 1886, amounted to $553,201.44.

Adding to this the seignorage of the year, the total gross silver profits
to be accounted for by the mints is $8,508,464.99.

Of this there was paid for expenses of distributing silver coin
$35,059.03, and reimbursed for wastage and loss on sale of sweeps
$20,294.88.

The seignorage on the coinage of silver at the mints of the United States
from July 1, 1878, to the close of the fiscal year ended June 30, 1887,
has amounted to $39,057,566.90.


Tabulated Statement of Expenditures of the Mint at Philadelphia, for the
Fiscal Year ended June 30, 1887.

  -----------------------------------------+-----------
                    Items.                 |  Amount.
  -----------------------------------------+-----------
  Acids                                    | $7,149.28
  Belting                                  |    315.07
  Charcoal                                 |  1,873.42
  Chemicals                                |    832.58
  Coal                                     | 16,332.20
  Copper                                   | 13,585.00
  Crucibles, covers, stirrers, and dippers |  3,712.72
  Dry goods                                |  1,198.97
  Fluxes                                   |  3,560.91
  Freight and drayage                      |    252.12
  Gas                                      |  4,098.78
  Gloves and gauntlets                     |  5,930.40
  Hardware                                 |    957.01
  Ice                                      |    613.45
  Iron and steel                           |    205.91
  Labor and repairs                        |  3,417.82
  Loss on sale of sweeps                   |  1,301.15
  Lumber                                   |  2,109.74
  Machinery and appliances                 |  2,617.49
  Metal work and castings                  |  1,697.61
  Oil                                      |  1,047.12
  Salt                                     |    117.56
  Stationery, printing and binding         |    773.42
  Sundries                                 |  6,230.61
  Telegraphing                             |     28.87
  Washing                                  |     42.67
  Wood                                     |  5,432.62
  Zinc                                     |    935.57
  Steam-power plant                        | 11,464.27
  Manufacture of 5-cent nickel blank       | 19,498.50
                                           +-----------
      Total                                |117,332.84
  Salaries                                 | 40,665.69
  Wages of workmen                         |426,593.93
                                           +-----------
      Aggregate                            |581,597.46
  -----------------------------------------+-----------


Value of the Foreign Gold Coins Deposited at the United States Assay
Office at New York during the Year ended June 30, 1887.

  ----------------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------
                        | Denominations |  Total of each  |   Total by
  Countries of Coinage. |   of coin.    | denomination of | countries of
                        |               |      coin.      |   coinage.
  ----------------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------
  Costa Rica            | Mixed         |        257.56   |       $257.56
  France                | 20 francs     |  1,219,351.02   |  1,219,351.02
  Germany               | 20 marks      |    179,121.67   |    179,121.67
  Great Britain         | Sovereigns    |  1,018,036.21   |  1,018,036.21
  Japan                 | Yens          |     18,608.37   |     18,608.37
  Mexico                | 20 pesos      |    388,668.88   |
    ”                   | 10 pesos      |      1,341.64   |
    ”                   | Doubloons     |      1,178.60   |    391,189.12
  Russia                | 5 roubles     |    155,237.39   |
    ”                   | Roubles       |      2,596.80   |
    ”                   | ½ imperials   |    577,223.34   |    735,057.53
  Peru                  | 20 soles      |        999.82   |        999.82
  Spain                 | Doubloons     |  3,101,388.08   |
    ”                   | Isabellines   |     98,151.58   |
    ”                   | 25 pesetas    |    957,276.17   |
    ”                   | Mixed         |    179,863.62   |  4,336,679.45
  U. S. Colombia        | Cinco pesos   |        709.76   |        709.76
                        |               +-----------------+---------------
      Total             |               | $7,900,010.51   | $7,900,010.51
  ----------------------+---------------+-----------------+---------------

The total value of both gold and silver deposited and purchased at
the mints of the United States during the fiscal year 1887, not
including redeposits, was $115,979,991.62, and including redeposits,
$131,635,811.34.

The value of the gold and silver received at the mints and assay offices
during the fiscal year 1887, was greater than any previous year since
1881.




IMPROVEMENTS MADE AT THE PHILADELPHIA MINT IN 1887, UNDER THE SUPERVISION
OF HON. DANIEL M. FOX.


Impairment of the foundation of the old engine, together with the
requirement of increased power, at the mint at Philadelphia led to a
special appropriation by Act of Congress of $54,639.20, in accordance
with specifications for the renewal of the steam motive plant and for its
transfer from the centre of the building to space newly provided near the
northern outer wall. The work, undertaken in July, was, by extraordinary
exertions on the part of all engaged, completed early in September, with
an interruption of less than two months to the regular course of complete
operations. Two new 150-horse-power duplex steam-engines and one of
50-horse-power have been erected in the north basement, along with three
tubular boilers, coal bunkers, etc.

By this important improvement in plant valuable space has been secured in
the centre basement and ground floor for vaults and other necessities.

The number of assays made during the year was some 66,000, of which
48,000 were silver and 18,000 gold.

The melter and refiner of the mint operated upon a larger quantity of
bullion than in any previous year in the history of the institution. The
operations by this officer may be stated as follows:

                           Ounces.
  Gold deposits            409,326
  Silver deposits       44,239,881
  Parted and refined       721,765

As this bullion is handled more than sixteen times in the processes of
melting and preparation for coinage or for manufacture of fine bars, the
combined operations represent a single handling of nearly 25,000 tons.

The operations of the coiner’s department may be stated as follows:

                           Ounces.
  Gold                      13,574
  Silver                42,924,485
  Minor coinage metal    5,588,897
                        ----------
         Total          48,526,956

The total coinage was $23,277,600.80, the total number of pieces being
81,532,391.

In addition to the coinage executed during the year, gold and silver bars
were manufactured as follows:

  Gold              $58,188,953.66
  Silver              6,481,611.25
                    --------------
         Total      $64,670,564.91


Gold and Silver Bullion in the Mints and Assay Offices July 1, 1887.

  --------+-------------
   Metal. |    Cost.
  --------+-------------
  Gold    | $85,512,270
  Silver  |  10,455,650
          |------------
    Total | $95,967,920
  --------+------------


Total Metallic Stock in the United States July 1, 1887, Coin and Bullion
included.

  --------+---------------
          |    Value.
  --------+---------------
  Gold    |  $654,520,335
  Silver  |   352,993,566
          +---------------
    Total |$1,007,513,901
  --------+---------------

At the beginning of the fiscal year 1887 there was on hand at the mints
at Philadelphia, New Orleans and San Francisco, silver bullion purchased
for the silver dollar coinage amounting to $2,960,969.02. There was
delivered at the mints on purchases of all kinds during the year, as
above, 29,433,342.27 standard ounces, at a cost of $25,988,620.46,
making the total amount of silver available during the fiscal year
for the silver dollar coinage 32,691,837.93 standard ounces, costing
$28,949,589.48.

The price paid by this Bureau on November 1, 1887, for silver purchases
for the silver dollar coinage was $0.9580.80 per ounce fine.

The production of silver, notwithstanding the large depreciation in the
market value of that metal, has steadily increased from $115,000,000
in 1883 to $130,000,000 in 1886. The production of the world for the
calendar years 1883, 1884, 1885 and 1886 is exhibited in the following
table:


World’s Production of Gold and Silver.

  ---------+-----------------------+------------------------
           |         Gold.         |        Silver.
  Calendar +----------+------------+----------+-------------
   Years.  |Kilograms.| Value.[23] |Kilograms.| Value.[24]
  ---------+----------+------------+----------+-------------
    1883   | 143,533  | $95,392,000| 2,769,197| $115,088,000
    1884   | 153,017  | 101,694,000| 2,804,725|  116,564,000
    1885   | 154,942  | 102,975,000| 3,062,009|  127,257,000
    1886   | 147,097  |  97,761,000| 3,137,175|  130,383,000
  ---------+----------+------------+----------+-------------

The United States still maintains first rank among the nations of the
world as the largest producer of the precious metals, having produced
during the calendar year 1886 gold and silver of the coining value
of $86,000,000. Mexico retains second rank, with a production of
$33,614,000, of which $33,000,000 was silver. Australia has a production
of $27,647,000, of which $26,425,000 was gold. Russia is credited with a
production of $21,046,000, of which $20,518,000 was gold.


Circulation of Standard Silver Dollars at the end of each six months,
from July 1, 1885, to July 1, 1887, and on October 1, 1887.

  ----------------+-------------+---------------------------+-------------
                  |             |       In the Treasury.    |
                  |             +-------------+-------------+
                  |             |  Held for   |  Held in    |
      Period.     |   Total     | payments of | excess of   |      In
                  |  coinage.   |certificates |certificates | circulation.
                  |             |outstanding. |outstanding. |
  ----------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------
  July 1, 1885    |$203,884,381 |$101,530,946 |$63,882,166  | $38,471,269
  January 1, 1886 | 218,259,761 |  93,179,465 | 72,538,725  |  52,541,571
  July 1, 1886    | 233,723,286 |  88,116,225 | 93,137,341  |  52,469,720
  January 1, 1887 | 249,683,647 | 117,246,670 | 71,259,568  |  61,177,409
  July 1, 1887    | 266,990,117 | 142,118,017 | 69,365,953  |  55,506,147
  October 1, 1887 | 273,660,157 | 154,354,826 | 58,688,970  |  60,616,361
  ----------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------


Appropriations for the support of Mints and Assay Offices for the fiscal
year 1888.

  ----------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+---------
   Institutions.  | Salaries.| Wages of |Contingent|Repairs of|  Total.
                  |          | workmen. | expenses.|buildings.|
  ----------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------
  _Coinage mints._|          |          |          |          |
                  |          |          |          |          |
  Philadelphia    |  $41,550 | $293,000 | $100,000 |          | $434,550
  San Francisco   |   41,900 |  170,000 |   40,000 |          |  251,900
  Carson          |   29,550 |   60,000 |   25,000 |          |  114,550
  New Orleans     |   31,950 |   74,000 |   35,000 |          |  140,950
                  |          |          |          |          |
  _Assay offices._|          |          |          |          |
                  |          |          |          |          |
  New York        |   39,250 |   25,000 |   10,000 |          |   74,250
  Denver          |   10,950 |   14,000 |    6,000 | $2,000   |   32,950
  Helena          |    7,700 |   12,000 |    6,000 |          |   25,700
  Boise City      |    3,000 |          |    5,000 |  1,000   |    9,000
  Charlotte       |    2,750 |          |    2,000 |          |    4,750
  Saint Louis     |    3,500 |          |    2,400 |          |    5,900
  ----------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-----------
      Total       | $212,100 | $648,000 | $231,400 | $3,000   |$1,094,500
  ----------------+----------+----------+----------+----------+-----------


Comparison of expenditures, years 1886 and 1887.

  -----------------------+--------------+--------------
      Appropriations.    |     1886.    |     1887.
  -----------------------+--------------+--------------
  Salaries               |$  189,331.48 |   $192,907.13
  Wages of workmen       |   593,865.07 |    601,787.25
  Contingent expenses    |   164,183.47 |[25]193,704.93
  Standard silver dollar |   119,976.00 |    200,189.02
  -----------------------+--------------+--------------
      Total              |$1,067,356.02 | $1,188,588.33
  -----------------------+--------------+--------------


Production in round numbers of precious metals in United States for 1886.

  -----------------------------+------------+-------------+------------
       State or Territory.     |    Gold.   |    Silver.  |   Total.
  -----------------------------+------------+-------------+------------
  Alaska                       |   $446,000 |      $2,000 |    $448,000
  Arizona                      |  1,110,000 |   3,400,000 |   4,510,000
  California                   | 14,725,000 |   1,400,000 |  16,125,000
  Colorado                     |  4,450,000 |  16,000,000 |  20,450,000
  Dakota                       |  2,700,000 |     425,000 |   3,125,000
  Georgia                      |    152,500 |       1,000 |     153,500
  Idaho                        |  1,800,000 |   3,600,000 |   5,400,000
  Montana                      |  4,425,000 |  12,400,000 |  16,825,000
  Nevada                       |  3,090,000 |   5,000,000 |   8,090,000
  New Mexico                   |    400,000 |   2,300,000 |   2,700,000
  North Carolina               |    175,000 |       3,000 |     178,000
  Oregon                       |    990,000 |       5,000 |     995,000
  South Carolina               |     37,500 |         500 |      38,000
  Utah                         |    216,000 |   6,500,000 |   6,716,000
  Washington                   |    147,000 |      80,000 |     227,000
  Texas                        |            |     200,000 |     200,000
  Alabama, Tennessee, Virginia,|            |             |
    Vermont, Michigan,         |            |             |
    and Wyoming                |      5,000 |       5,000 |      10,000
  -----------------------------+------------+-------------+------------
    Total                      |$34,869,000 | $51,321,500 | $86,190,500
  -----------------------------+------------+-------------+------------


Production of the United States from 1880 to 1886.

  ---------------+-----------+-----------+-------------
  Calendar Years.|   Gold.   |  Silver.  |   Total.
  ---------------+-----------+-----------+-------------
  1880           |$36,000,000|$39,200,000|$75,200,000
  1881           | 34,700,000| 43,000,000| 77,700,000
  1882           | 32,500,000| 46,800,000| 79,300,000
  1883           | 30,000,000| 46,200,000| 76,200,000
  1884           | 30,800,000| 48,800,000| 79,600,000
  1885           | 31,800,000| 51,600,000| 83,400,000
  1886           | 35,000,000| 51,000,000| 86,000,000
  ---------------+-----------+-----------+-------------


Gold and silver product in the United States and amount coined in 1886.

  GOLD.

  Value of the product of the mines, 1886                      $98,000,000
  Coinage executed in 1886                      $92,650,000
  Recoinage                                       9,600,000
                                                -----------
  Net coinage 1886                                              83,050,000
                                                               -----------
  Leaving new gold for employment in the arts                  $14,950,000
                                                               ===========

  SILVER.

  Value of the product of the mines, 1886                     $130,000,000
  Coinage executed in 1886                      $124,670,000
  Recoinage                                       13,950,000
                                                ------------
  Net coinage 1886                                             110,720,000
                                                               -----------
  Leaving new silver for employment in the arts                $19,280,000
                                                               ===========


Minor Coins Shipped to the Different States and Territories from the Mint
at Philadelphia during the Fiscal Year 1887.

  --------------------+------------+------------
                      |  1-cent    |   5-cent
  State or Territory. |  bronze.   |   nickel.
  --------------------+------------+------------
  Alabama             |     $25.00 |  $5,375.00
  Arkansas            |      20.00 |     890.00
  Arizona             |      20.00 |
  California          |   1,215.00 |  11,585.00
  Colorado            |     105.00 |   6,090.00
  Connecticut         |   6,230.00 |   6,010.00
  Delaware            |     385.00 |     950.00
  District of Columbia|     200.00 |     300.00
  Dakota              |   1,590.00 |   3,640.00
  Florida             |     190.00 |     840.00
  Georgia             |     490.00 |   3,020.00
  Indiana             |  10,669.37 |  18,710.00
  Iowa                |   8,330.00 |  11,970.00
  Illinois            |  51,831.00 |  68,355.00
  Idaho               |            |      80.00
  Kentucky            |   1,775.00 |  12,950.00
  Kansas              |   4,440.00 |   8,720.00
  Louisiana           |     400.00 |   6,510.00
  Michigan            |  17,840.00 |  11,786.00
  Massachusetts       |  38,815.00 |  39,210.00
  Minnesota           |  10,405.00 |  13,615.00
  Maine               |   1,325.00 |   1,215.00
  Mississippi         |      25.00 |     250.00
  Montana             |            |   2,020.00
  Maryland            |  14,270.00 |  22,070.00
  Missouri            |   7,650.00 | $49,490.00
  New York            | 128,125.00 |  73,870.00
  North Carolina      |   1,035.00 |   1,290.00
  New Jersey          |  12,965.00 |  11,835.00
  New Hampshire       |     800.00 |   2,600.00
  New Mexico          |            |     400.00
  Nebraska            |   2,710.00 |  14,865.00
  Ohio                |  29,015.00 |  34,990.00
  Oregon              |      20.00 |   3,510.00
  Pennsylvania        |  25,509.00 |  45,045.00
  Rhode Island        |   6,951.00 |   3,100.00
  South Carolina      |     800.00 |   2,865.00
  Texas               |     150.00 |   7,320.00
  Tennessee           |   1,280.00 |  15,890.00
  Utah                |            |   1,320.00
  Virginia            |   3,080.00 |   5,540.00
  Vermont             |   1,370.00 |     900.00
  West Virginia       |   1,235.00 |   2,380.00
  Wisconsin           |   7,230.00 |  10,755.00
  Washington Territory|            |     500.00
  Wyoming             |            |     260.00
                      +------------+------------
      Total           |$400,510.37 |$544,686.00
  --------------------+------------+------------


Minor Coins Struck and Remelted from the Organization of the Mint, and
the Amount Outstanding June 30, 1887.

  ---------------------+---------------+--------------+---------------
                       |               |              |  Outstanding,
     Denomination.     |    Coined.    |   Remelted.  | June 30, 1887.
  ---------------------+---------------+--------------+---------------
  Copper cents         | $1,562,887.44 |  $372,741.70 | $1,190,145.74
  Copper half cents    |    399,926.11 |   |
  Copper nickel cents  |  2,007,720.00 |   735,616.30 |  1,272,103.70
  Bronze cents         |  4,319,275.48 |    24,517.11 |  4,294,758.37
  Bronze 2-cent pieces |    912,020.00 |   292,128.08 |    619,891.92
  Nickel 3-cent pieces |    903,705.00 |   175,541.44 |    728,163.56
  Nickel 5-cent pieces |  8,691,671.75 |    61,934.00 |  8,629,737.75
                       +---------------+--------------+---------------
       Total           |$18,437,205.78 |$1,662,478.63 |$16,734,801.04
  ---------------------+---------------+--------------+---------------

On the 30th June, 1886, the amount of minor coin in the Treasury was
$377,814. Of this amount over $160,000 proved to be in 3-cent nickel
pieces, for which there was no demand, and over $60,000 in uncurrent
minor coins of former issues was transferred for recoinage, confined to
1-cent bronze and 5-cent nickel pieces. The demand for 1-cent bronze
and 5-cent nickel pieces, at first sudden, has since been urgent and
continuous; at times largely beyond the ability of the mint to promptly
meet.


Operations Fiscal Year, 1887.

  Bars manufactured:
     Gold                              $58,188,953.66
     Silver                              6,481,611.25
                                    -----------------
        Total                           64,670,564.91
                                      ===============
  Coinage executed:
     Gold                             $22,393,279.00
     Silver                            34,366,483.75
     Minor                                943,650.65
                                    ----------------
        Total                          57,703,413.40
                                     ===============
  Refinery earnings                      $143,258.52




SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONS OF THE MINTS AND ASSAY OFFICES.


The value of the gold and silver deposited at the mints and assay offices
of the United States during the fiscal year 1887 was $131,635,811.34.
This aggregate, however, but partially measures the successive operations
upon the bullion represented by this value. For example, it may be
interesting to show the operations by the melters and refiners of the
four mints and of the assay office at New York, as measured by the value
of the bullion successively operated upon. These may be stated as follows:


Bullion Operated upon by the Melters and Refiners, 1887.

  --------------+------------------+--------------
      Metal.    | Standard ounces. |    Value.
  --------------+------------------+--------------
  Gold          |    5,919,878     | $110,137,265
  Silver        |   70,764,794     |   82,344,487
                +------------------+--------------
    Total value |                  | $192,481,752
  --------------+------------------+--------------

The operations of the coinage departments of the mints were as follows:


Operations of Coinage Departments, 1887.

  --------------+------------------+--------------
      Metal.    | Standard ounces. |    Value.
  --------------+------------------+--------------
  Gold          |    2,632,005     |  $48,967,440
  Silver        |   61,896,692     |   72,025,241
                +------------------+--------------
    Total value |                  | $120,992,681
  --------------+------------------+--------------

The 1-cent and 2-cent bronze pieces were recoined into 1-cent bronze
pieces, and the copper nickel 1-cent, and the 3-cent and 5-cent nickel
pieces were used in the coinage of new 5-cent nickel pieces.


Form and Location of the Moneys of the United States and the Bullion
awaiting Coinage in the Mints July 1, 1887.

[Exclusive of Minor Coin and Minor-Coinage Metal.]

  -------------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------
                           |               |  In National  |In other Banks
                           |  In Treasury. |   Banks.[26]  |  and General
                           |               |               | Circulation.
  -------------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------
           METALLIC.       |               |               |
  Gold bullion             |    $85,512,270|               |
  Silver bullion           |      4,091,414|               |
  Silver bullion (melted   |               |               |
    trade dollars)         |      6,364,236|               |
  Gold coin                |    192,368,915|[27]$98,137,439|  $278,501,711
  Silver dollar            |    211,483,970|      6,343,213|    49,162,934
  Subsidiary silver coin   |     26,977,493|      2,813,138|    45,757,168
                           +---------------+---------------+--------------
      Total                |   $526,798,298|   $107,293,790|  $373,421,813
                           +===============+===============+==============
        REPRESENTATIVE.    |               |               |
  Legal-tender notes       |[28]$28,783,796|    $74,477,342|  $243,419,878
  Old demand notes         |               |               |        57,130
  Certificates of deposit  |        310,000|      7,810,000|       960,000
  Gold certificates        |     30,261,380|     54,274,940|    36,950,497
  Silver certificates      |      3,425,133|      3,535,479|   138,582,538
  National bank notes      |        197,046|     22,962,737|   256,058,005
  Fractional paper currency|          2,366|        564,266|     6,380,332
                           +---------------+---------------+--------------
      Total                |    $62,979,721|   $163,624,764|  $682,408,380
  -------------------------+---------------+---------------+--------------

  -------------------------+---------------
                           |
                           |    Total.
                           |
  -------------------------+---------------
           METALLIC.       |
  Gold bullion             |   $85,512,270
  Silver bullion           |     4,091,414
  Silver bullion (melted   |
    trade dollars)         |     6,364,236
  Gold coin                |   569,008,065
  Silver dollar            |   266,990,117
  Subsidiary silver coin   |    75,547,799
                           +---------------
      Total                |$1,007,513,901
                           +===============
        REPRESENTATIVE.    |
  Legal-tender notes       |  $346,681,016
  Old demand notes         |        57,130
  Certificates of deposit  |     9,080,000
  Gold certificates        |   121,486,817
  Silver certificates      |   145,543,150
  National bank notes      |   279,217,788
  Fractional paper currency|     6,946,964
                           +---------------
      Total                |  $909,012,865
  -------------------------+---------------


Gold and Silver Coin in the United States November 1, 1887.

  ----------------------+------------+-------------------------------------
                        |            |            Silver Coin.
                        |            +------------+-----------+------------
           Date.        | Gold Coin. | Full Legal |Subsidiary.|   Total
                        |            |   Tender.  |           |  Silver.
  ----------------------+------------+------------+-----------+------------
  Last official         |            |            |           |
    statement           |            |            |           |
    July 1, 1887        |$569,008,065|$266,990,117|$75,547,799|$342,537,916
  Gain subsequent to    |            |            |           |
    above statement     |            |            |           |
   (estimate)           |   5,919,808|  10,120,040|    210,387|  10,330,427
                        +------------+------------+-----------+------------
  Estimate for November |            |            |           |
    1, 1887             |$574,927,873|$277,110,157|$75,758,186|$352,868,343
  ----------------------+------------+------------+------------------------

  ----------------------+-------------
                        |
                        | Total Gold
           Date.        | and Silver
                        |    Coin.
  ----------------------+-------------
  Last official         |
    statement           |
    July 1, 1887        |$911,545,981
  Gain subsequent to    |
    above statement     |
   (estimate)           |  16,250,235
                        +-------------
  Estimate for November |
    1, 1887             |$927,796,216
  ----------------------+-------------


Estimate of Coin Circulation July 1, 1887.

  ------------------------------+------------+--------------+--------------
                Items.          |    Gold.   |    Silver.   |     Total.
  ------------------------------+------------+--------------+--------------
  Estimated circulation July 1, |            |              |
    1886                        |$548,320,031| $308,784,223 | $857,104,254
  Coinage for fiscal year 1887  |  22,393,279|   34,366,483 |   56,759,762
  Net imports                   |   2,311,739|      409,151 |    2,720,890
                                +------------+--------------+--------------
      Total                     |$573,025,049| $343,559,857 | $916,584,906
                                +============+==============+==============
  Less deposits of United       |            |              |
    States coin                 |     516,984|      821,941 |    1,338,925
  Used in the arts              |   3,500,000|      200,000 |    3,700,000
                                +------------+--------------+--------------
      Total                     |   4,016,984|    1,021,941 |    5,038,925
                                +============+==============+==============
  Estimated circulation July 1, |            |              |
    1887                        |$569,008,065| $342,537,916 | $911,545,981


Table showing the Total Paper and Specie Circulation in each of the
Principal Countries of the World, and the Amount of Specie in Bank and
National Treasuries, and the Amount of Active Circulation.

(Officially Reported in 1884.)

  -------------------------+-----------+--------------+------------------
                           |           |Total metallic|    Amount of
        Countries.         |Population.|  and paper   |specie in national
                           |           | circulation. |   treasuries
                           |           |              |   and banks.
  -------------------------+-----------+--------------+------------------
  United States            | 50,155,783|$1,745,926,755|    $534,033,074
  Great Britain and Ireland| 35,246,562|   876,318,139|     154,182,691
  Dominion of Canada,      |           |              |
    including Manitoba     |           |              |
    and Newfoundland       |  4,506,563|    59,596,084|       9,111,148
  British India            |252,541,210| 1,099,383,126|      78,358,000
  Ceylon                   |  2,758,166|     2,335,300|       1,273,800
  Australia, Tasmania,     |           |              |
    and New Zealand        |  2,798,898|    96,010,722|      48,737,837
  Cape of Good Hope        |    780,757|    38,078,000|       8,092,000
  France                   | 37,321,186| 1,990,961,912|     402,939,754
  Algiers                  |  2,867,626|    27,567,000|       5,564,476
  Guadeloupe               |    185,460|     1,627,750|         564,935
  Belgium                  |  5,536,654|   186,326,515|      17,991,450
  Switzerland              |  2,846,102|    53,180,731|      11,609,618
  Italy                    | 28,452,639|   533,548,521|      69,357,358
  Greece                   |  1,979,423|    29,143,000|       1,800,000
  Spain                    | 16,625,860|   270,812,440|      27,223,959
  Cuba                     |  1,394,516|    73,043,543|      14,181,243
  Luzon                    |  4,450,191|     4,198,000|       3,765,677
  Portugal, including      |           |              |
    Azores and Madeira     |  4,550,699|    46,367,680|      11,718,874
  Germany                  | 45,234,061|   825,473,023|     181,706,674
  Austria-Hungary          | 35,839,428|   431,646,314|      98,131,401
  Sweden and Norway        |  6,479,168|    43,058,443|      12,740,975
  Danish Kingdom           |  2,096,400|    39,228,000|      14,070,000
  Netherlands              |  4,061,580|   163,847,949|      55,114,112
  Russia                   | 98,323,000|   646,431,794|     124,008,153
  Turkey                   | 24,987,000|    83,315,976|      14,520,000
  Roumania                 |  5,376,000|    27,372,383|       3,995,298
  Mexico                   |  9,557,279|    52,048,529|       1,763,008
  Central America          |  2,891,600|     4,701,861|
  Argentine Republic       |  2,540,000|    71,371,850|      14,196,461
  Colombia                 |  3,000,000|     5,097,830|         200,000
  Brazil                   | 11,108,291|   139,871,255|
  Peru                     |  3,050,000|    14,980,820|       1,882,018
  Venezuela                |  2,675,245|     2,682,700|
  Chili                    |  2,420,500|    32,555,341|       2,398,000
  Bolivia                  |  2,325,000|     6,908,533|         443,597
  Uruguay                  |    438,245|    11,587,000|       4,601,000
  Hayti                    |    572,000|     4,780,000|
  Japan                    | 36,700,110|   248,744,805|      28,486,973
  Hawaiian Islands         |     66,895|     1,834,900|         808,200
                           +-----------+--------------+------------------
                           |           | 9,991,964,524|   1,959,571,764
  -------------------------+-----------+--------------+------------------

  -------------------------+--------------+-------------
                           |              |
        Countries.         |    Active    | Per capita
                           | circulation. | of active
                           |              |circulation.
  -------------------------+--------------+-------------
  United States            |$1,211,893,681|   $24.16
  Great Britain and Ireland|   722,135,448|    20.49
  Dominion of Canada,      |              |
    including Manitoba     |              |
    and Newfoundland       |    50,484,936|    11.22
  British India            | 1,021,025,126|     4.05
  Ceylon                   |     1,061,500|      .38
  Australia, Tasmania,     |              |
    and New Zealand        |    47,272,885|    16.90
  Cape of Good Hope        |    29,986,000|    38.40
  France                   | 1,588,022,158|    42.55
  Algiers                  |    22,002,524|     7.67
  Guadeloupe               |     1,062,815|     5.73
  Belgium                  |   168,335,065|    30.40
  Switzerland              |    41,571,113|    14.60
  Italy                    |   464,191,163|    16.31
  Greece                   |    27,343,000|    13.81
  Spain                    |   243,588,481|    14.65
  Cuba                     |    58,862,300|    42.21
  Luzon                    |       432,323|      .10
  Portugal, including      |              |
    Azores and Madeira     |    34,648,806|     7.61
  Germany                  |   643,766,349|    14.23
  Austria-Hungary          |   333,514,913|     9.31
  Sweden and Norway        |    30,317,468|     4.68
  Danish Kingdom           |    25,158,000|    12.00
  Netherlands              |   108,733,837|    26.77
  Russia                   |   522,423,641|     5.31
  Turkey                   |    68,795,976|     2.75
  Roumania                 |    23,377,085|     4.35
  Mexico                   |    50,285,521|     5.26
  Central America          |     4,701,861|     1.62
  Argentine Republic       |    57,175,389|    22.51
  Colombia                 |     4,897,830|     1.63
  Brazil                   |   139,871,255|    12.59
  Peru                     |    13,098,802|     4.29
  Venezuela                |     2,682,700|     1.00
  Chili                    |    30,157,341|    12.45
  Bolivia                  |     6,464,936|     2.78
  Uruguay                  |     6,986,000|    15.94
  Hayti                    |     4,780,000|     8.35
  Japan                    |   220,257,832|     6.00
  Hawaiian Islands         |     1,026,700|    15.35
                           +--------------+-------------
                           | 8,032,392,760|
  -------------------------+--------------+-------------


WORLD’S COINAGE.

  ----------------+-----------+-------------
  Calendar years. |   Gold.   |  Silver.
  ----------------+-----------+-------------
  1884            |$99,432,795| $95,832,084
  1885            | 94,728,008| 105,105,299
  1886            | 92,653,400| 124,678,678
  ----------------+-----------+-------------

The value of the United States gold coin deposited for recoinage,
principally by the Treasurer of the United States, was $516,984.63,
against $393,545.28 in the preceding year.

In addition to the gold bullion both of domestic and foreign production,
and the foreign and domestic gold coin deposited, old material in the
form of jewelry, bars, old plate, etc., was received containing gold of
the value of $2,265,219.85.

The marked increase in the deposits of gold was at the assay office at
New York, the value of the foreign gold bullion and coin deposited at
that institution during the year being $30,621,006.95, exclusive of fine
bars of its own manufacture, of the value of $7,933,743.98, imported and
re-deposited.

The value of the foreign gold bullion deposited was $22,571,328.70,
against $4,317,068.27 in 1886.

The value of the foreign gold coin received and melted was $9,896,512.28,
against $5,673,565.04 in the year preceding.

The value of the total deposits of gold during the fiscal year 1887,
including all re-deposits as above cited, was $83,416,779.40, against
$49,606,534.65 in 1886, an excess in the year 1887 of $33,810,244.75.

The value of silver bullion of foreign extraction deposited at the mints
during the year 1887 was $1,457,406.01.

The value of foreign silver coin deposited during the year was
$350,598.86, against $812,664.50 in the preceding year.

The value of the United States silver coin deposited (calculated at
the coining rate in silver dollars), not including trade-dollars, was
$768,739.32, most of which consisted of worn and uncurrent silver coins
transferred from the Treasury of the United States for recoinage.

Trade-dollars were received mostly by transfer from the Treasury of the
United States and melted. The bullion contained 5,837,791.87 standard
ounces, of the coinage value in standard silver dollars of $6,793,066.89.


EARNINGS AND EXPENDITURES OF THE MINTS AND ASSAY OFFICES.

The total earnings amounted to $8,842,819.70, and the total expenditures
and losses of all kinds to $1,437,442.95. The profits from operations on
bullion during the past year amounted to the large sum of $7,405,386.75.

A large portion of these earnings consisted of seignorage or profits on
the manufacture of silver and minor coins.


Highest and lowest prices of Gold in New York.

Each month in 1862-1878.

  =========+===========+===========+===========+===========+===========
    Month. |   1862.   |   1863.   |   1864.   |   1865.   |   1866.
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
           | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._
  January  | 103¾ 101¾ | 160¾ 133⅝ | 159⅜ 151½ | 234⅜ 197¼ | 144¼ 136¾
  February | 104¾ 102⅛ | 172½ 152½ | 161  157⅛ | 216¾ 196⅜ | 140⅝ 135¾
  March    | 102½ 101⅛ | 171¾ 139  | 169¾ 159  | 201  148⅛ | 136½ 124⅞
  April    | 102¼ 101½ | 157⅞ 145½ | 184¾ 166¼ | 154½ 143½ | 129½ 125¼
  May      | 104⅛ 102⅛ | 154¾ 143½ | 190  168  | 145⅛ 128½ | 141½ 125⅛
  June     | 109½ 103½ | 148⅜ 140½ | 250  193  | 147⅝ 135¼ | 167¾ 137½
  July     | 120⅛ 108¾ | 145  123¼ | 285  222  | 146⅛ 138⅝ | 155¾ 147
  August   | 116¼ 112½ | 129¾ 122⅛ | 261¾ 231½ | 145⅛ 140¼ | 152⅛ 146½
  September| 124  116½ | 143⅛ 126⅞ | 254½ 191  | 145  142⅝ | 147⅛ 143½
  October  | 133½ 122  | 153¾ 140⅜ | 227¾ 189  | 149  144⅛ | 154⅜ 145½
  November | 133¼ 129  | 154  143  | 260  210  | 148¾ 145½ | 148⅝ 137½
  December | 134  128½ | 152¾ 148½ | 243  212¾ | 148½ 144½ | 141¾ 131¼
           +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
    Year   | 134  101⅛ | 172½ 122⅛ | 285  151½ | 234⅜ 128½ | 167¾ 125⅛
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------

  =========+===========+===========+===========+===========
    Month. |   1867.   |   1868.   |   1869.   |   1870.
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
           | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._
  January  | 137⅞ 132⅛ | 142¼ 133¼ | 136⅝ 134⅝ | 123¼ 119⅜
  February | 140⅜ 135⅛ | 144  139¾ | 136¼ 130⅞ | 121½ 115⅛
  March    | 140⅜ 133⅝ | 141¼ 137⅞ | 132½ 130⅜ | 116⅜ 110¼
  April    | 141⅝ 132⅝ | 140⅜ 137¾ | 134⅝ 131⅜ | 115⅜ 111½
  May      | 138⅞ 135  | 140½ 139⅛ | 144¾ 134½ | 115½ 113¾
  June     | 138¾ 136⅜ | 141¼ 139⅜ | 139⅝ 136½ | 114¾ 110⅞
  July     | 140⅝ 138  | 145¼ 143⅛ | 137¾ 134¼ | 122¾ 111⅛
  August   | 142½ 139⅞ | 150  143½ | 136½ 131⅜ | 122  114¾
  September| 146⅜ 141  | 145⅛ 141⅛ | 162½ 129¾ | 116¾ 112¼
  October  | 145⅝ 140¼ | 140½ 133¾ | 132  128¼ | 113¾ 111⅛
  November | 141½ 138½ | 137  132  | 128⅜ 121⅛ | 113¾ 110
  December | 137⅞ 133  | 136¾ 134⅜ | 124  119½ | 111⅜ 110⅜
           +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
    Year   | 146⅜ 132⅛ | 150  132  | 162½ 119½ | 123¼ 110
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------

  =========+===========+===========+===========+===========
    Month. |   1871.   |   1872.   |   1873.   |   1874.
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
           | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._
  January  | 111¼ 110½ | 110⅛ 108½ | 114¼ 111⅝ | 112⅛ 110⅛
  February | 112¼ 110¾ | 111  109½ | 115⅛ 112⅞ | 113  111⅜
  March    | 111⅝ 110⅛ | 110⅝ 109¾ | 118½ 114⅝ | 113⅞ 111¼
  April    | 111¾ 110⅛ | 113¼ 109⅞ | 119⅛ 116¾ | 114⅜ 111¾
  May      | 112¼ 111  | 114⅜ 112⅛ | 118⅝ 116⅝ | 113⅛ 111⅞
  June     | 113⅛ 111¾ | 114¾ 113  | 118¼ 115  | 112¼ 110½
  July     | 113¾ 111¾ | 115¼ 113½ | 116⅜ 115  | 110⅞ 109
  August   | 113⅛ 111⅝ | 115⅝ 112⅛ | 116¼ 114⅜ | 110¼ 109¼
  September| 115⅜ 112¾ | 115⅛ 112⅝ | 116⅛ 110⅞ | 110¼ 109⅜
  October  | 115  111½ | 115¼ 112¼ | 111¼ 107¾ | 110⅜ 109¾
  November | 112⅜ 110⅜ | 114¼ 111⅜ | 110½ 106⅛ | 112⅜ 110
  December | 110¼ 108⅜ | 113½ 111⅜ | 112⅝ 108⅜ | 112⅜ 110½
           +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
    Year   | 115⅜ 108⅜ | 115⅝ 108½ | 119  106⅛ | 114⅜ 109
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------

  =========+===========+===========+===========+===========
    Month. |   1875.   |   1876.   |   1877.   |   1878.
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
           | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._ | _H._ _L._
  January  | 113⅜ 111¾ | 113¼ 112⅜ | 107⅛ 105¼ | 102⅞ 101¼
  February | 115⅜ 113¼ | 114⅛ 112¾ | 106⅛ 104⅝ | 102⅜ 101⅝
  March    | 117  114⅜ | 115  113¾ | 105⅜ 104¼ | 102  100¾
  April    | 115½ 114  | 113⅞ 112½ | 107⅞ 104¾ | 101¼ 100⅛
  May      | 116⅜ 115  | 113¼ 112¼ | 107⅜ 106¼ | 101¼ 100⅜
  June     | 117½ 116¼ | 113  111⅞ | 106⅜ 104¾ | 101  100⅝
  July     | 117¼ 111¾ | 112⅜ 111⅜ | 106⅛ 105⅛ | 100¾ 100⅜
  August   | 114¾ 112⅝ | 112⅛ 109¾ | 105½ 103⅞ | 100¾ 100½
  September| 117⅜ 113¾ | 110⅜ 109¼ | 104  102⅞ | 100½ 100⅛
  October  | 117⅝ 114½ | 113¼ 108⅞ | 103⅜ 102½ | 100⅜ 100¼
  November | 116⅜ 114⅛ | 110⅛ 108⅛ | 103⅜ 102½ | 100½ 100⅛
  December | 115¼ 112⅝ | 109  107  | 103⅜ 102½ | 100½ 100
           +-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------
    Year   | 117⅝ 111¾ | 115  107  | 107⅞ 102½ | 102⅞ 100
  ---------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------

NOTE.—Specie payment resumed January 1, 1879, after a suspension of
nearly 18 years.


Latest official estimate of the values of foreign coins in the United
States, January, 1887.

  -------------------+------------+-----------------------+----------------
                     |            |                       |
       COUNTRY.      |  Standard. |    Monetary Unit.     |    Standard.
  -------------------+------------+-----------------------+----------------
  Argentine Republic | Double     | Peso                  | Gold and silver
  Austria            | S. silver  | Florin                | Silver
  Belgium            | Double     | Franc                 | Gold and silver
  Bolivia            | S. silver  | Boliviano             | Silver
  Brazil             | S. gold    | Milreis of 1000 reis  | Gold
  British Possessions|            |                       |
    in N. A.         |            | Dollar                | Gold
  Chili              | Double     | Peso                  | Gold and silver
  Cuba               | Double     | Peso                  | Gold and silver
  Denmark            | S. gold    | Crown                 | Gold
  Ecuador            | S. silver  | Peso                  | Silver
  Egypt              | S. gold    | Piaster               | Gold
  France             | Double     | Franc                 | Gold and silver
  German Empire      | S. gold    | Marc                  | Gold
  Great Britain      | S. gold    | Pound sterling        | Gold
  Greece             | Double     | Drachma               | Gold and silver
  Hayti              | Double     | Gourde                | Gold and silver
  India              | S. silver  | Rupee of 16 annas     | Silver
  Italy              | Double     | Lira                  | Gold and silver
  Japan              | Double     | Yen                   | Silver
  Liberia            | S. gold    | Dollar                | Gold
  Mexico             | S. silver  | Dollar                | Silver
  Netherlands        | Double     | Florin                | Gold and silver
  Norway             | S. gold    | Crown                 | Gold
  Peru               | S. silver  | Sol                   | Silver
  Portugal           | S. gold    | Milreis of 1000 reis  | Gold
  Russia             | S. silver  | Rouble of 100 copecks | Silver
  Spain              | Double     | Peseta of 100 centimes| Gold and silver
  Sweden             | S. gold    | Crown.                | Gold
  Switzerland        | Double     | Franc.                | Gold and silver
  Tripoli            | S. silver  | Mahbub of 20 piasters | Silver
  Turkey             | S. gold    | Piaster.              | Gold
  United States of   |            |                       |
    Colombia         | S. silver  | Peso.                 | Silver
  Venezuela          | Double     | Bolivar.              | Gold and silver
  -------------------+------------+-----------------------+----------------

  -------------------+--------------+----------------------------------
                     |   Value in   |
       COUNTRY.      | U. S. Money. |          Standard Coin.
  -------------------+--------------+----------------------------------
  Argentine Republic |    96.5      | ⅟₂₀, ⅒, ⅕, ½ and 1 peso, ½
                     |              |   argentine.
  Austria            |    35.9      |
  Belgium            |    19.3      | 5, 10 and 20 francs.
  Bolivia            |    72.7      | Boliviano.
  Brazil             |    54.6      |
  British Possessions|              |
    in N. A.         | $1.00        |
  Chili              |    91.2      | Condor, doubloon and escudo.
  Cuba               |    93.2      | ⅟₁₆, ⅛, ¼, ½ and 1 doubloon.
  Denmark            |    26.8      | 10 and 20 crowns.
  Ecuador            |    72.7      | Peso.
  Egypt              |    04.943    | 5, 10, 25, 50 and 100 piasters.
  France             |    19.3      | 5,10 and 20 francs.
  German Empire      |    23.8      | 5, 10 and 20 marks.
  Great Britain      |  4.86.6½     | ½ sovereign and sovereign.
  Greece             |    19.3      | 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 drachmas.
  Hayti              |    96.5      | 1, 2, 5 and 10 gourdes.
  India              |    34.6      |
  Italy              |    19.3      | 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 lire.
  Japan              |    78.4      | 1, 2, 5, 10 and 20 yen, gold and
                     |              |   silver yen.
  Liberia            |  1.00        |
  Mexico             |    07.9      | Peso or dollar, 5, 10, 25 and 50
                     |              |   centavo.
  Netherlands        |    40.2      |
  Norway             |    26.8      | 10 and 20 crowns.
  Peru               |    72.7      | Sol.
  Portugal           |  1.08        | 2, 5 and 10 milreis.
  Russia             |    58.2      | ¼, ½ and 1 rouble.
  Spain              |    19.3      | 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 pesetas.
  Sweden             |    26.8      | 10 and 20 crowns.
  Switzerland        |    19.3      | 5, 10 and 20 francs.
  Tripoli            |    65.6      |
  Turkey             |    04.4      | 25, 50, 100, 250, 500 piasters.
  United States of   |              |
    Colombia         |    72.7      | Peso.
  Venezuela          |    19.3      | 5, 10, 20, 50 and 100 bolivar.
  -------------------+--------------+----------------------------------

NOTE.—The “standard” of a given country is indicated as follows, namely:
_Double_, where its standard silver coins are unlimited legal tender, the
same as its gold coins; _S. gold_ or _S. silver_, as its standard coins
of one or the other metal are unlimited legal tender. The par of exchange
of the monetary unit of a country with a single gold, or a double,
standard is fixed at the value of the gold unit as compared with the
United States gold unit. In the case of a country with a single silver
standard, the par of exchange is computed at the mean price of silver in
the London market for a period commencing October 1 and ending December
26, 1886, as per daily cable dispatches to the Bureau of the Mint.


TREASURY DEPARTMENT.

                                       WASHINGTON, D. C., JANUARY 1, 1887.

VALUES OF FOREIGN COINS.

In accordance with the provisions of section 3564 of the Revised Statutes
of the United States, the value of the standard coins of the various
nations of the world were estimated by the Mint Bureau and proclaimed by
the Department on January 1, 1887.

These estimates, to be followed at the custom-houses of the United
States on and after January 1, 1887, in determining the values of
invoices expressed in terms of foreign units of account, are shown in the
following table (see opposite page):

The average price of silver in London for the period embraced between
October 1 and December 26, 1886, was 45.862 pence per ounce, British
standard, equivalent at the par of exchange to $1.00535 per ounce fine.

The corresponding value of silver for the three months ending December
24, 1885, was $1.038141 per ounce fine, a decline of $0.03279, a little
over three cents a fine ounce.

The depression in the price of silver occasioned a change in the
estimated values given the following coins:


Changes in Values of Foreign Coins from 1886 to 1887.

  ----------------------------------+-------------+-------------
                                    |   Value,    |   Value,
                 Coins.             |Jan. 1, 1886.|Jan. 1, 1887.
  ----------------------------------+-------------+-------------
  Florin of Austria                 |    $0.371   |   $0.359
  Boliviano of Bolivia              |      .751   |     .727
  Sucre of Ecuador                  |      .751   |     .727
  Rupee of India                    |      .357   |     .346
  Yen of Japan                      |      .810   |     .784
  Dollar of Mexico                  |      .816   |     .790
  Sol of Peru                       |      .751   |     .727
  Rouble of Russia                  |      .601   |     .582
  Mahbub of Tripoli                 |      .677   |     .656
  Peso of United States of Colombia |      .751   |     .727
  ----------------------------------+-------------+-------------

The monetary unit of Egypt has been nominally changed from the piaster to
the pound containing one hundred piasters.

The monetary unit of Ecuador also has been nominally changed from the
peso to the sucre, but with no change as to weight or fineness.

In regard to Japan, in the table for 1887 the values of the gold and
silver yen were estimated separately, for the reason that while by law
the standard of Japan is gold, silver is practically the standard of
value, and invoices of merchandise from Japan are generally in terms of
the silver yen.


Aggregate Issues of Paper Money in War times.

The following table exhibits the amount per capita issued of the
Continental money, the French assignats, the Confederate currency, and
the legal-tender greenbacks and National bank notes of the United States.

  --------------------+----------------------------+-------------+---------
                      |        Population.         |             |
  --------------------+----------------------------+             +---------
  Continental money.  |  3,000,000 in 1780         |             | $119.84
  French assignats.   | 26,500,000 (France in 1790)|             |  343.98
  Confederate curr’cy.|  9,103,332 (11 Confederate |             |   71.89
                      |              States, 1860) |             |
  Greenbacks and      | 31,443,321 (United States  |             |
    national          |              in 1860).     |             |
    bank notes.       |                            |$750,820,228 |   23.87
  --------------------+----------------------------+-------------+---------


Refining (by acids), fiscal year 1887.

  --------------+---------+----------------------+---------------------
                |         |         Gold.        |       Silver.
  Mint or       | Gross   +----------+-----------+----------+----------
  Assay Office. | ounces. | Standard |   Value.  | Standard |  Value.
                |         |  ounces. |           |  ounces. |
  --------------+---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------
  Philadelphia. |  721,765|   190,539| $3,554,912|   553,437|  $643,999
  San Francisco.|1,506,217|   365,970|  6,808,744| 1,248,071| 1,452,300
  Carson.       |   45,447|     3,606|     67,088|    45,665|    53,137
  New Orleans.  |   15,544|     4,840|     90,046|    11,167|    12,994
  New York.     |3,822,148|   764,676| 14,226,530| 3,005,812| 3,497,672
  --------------+---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------
    Total.      |6,111,121| 1,329,631|$24,737,320| 4,864,152|$5,660,102
  --------------+---------+----------+-----------+----------+----------

  --------------+-----------
                |
  Mint or       |   Total
  Assay Office. |   value.
                |
  --------------+-----------
  Philadelphia. | $4,188,911
  San Francisco.|  8,261,044
  Carson.       |    120,225
  New Orleans.  |    103,040
  New York.     | 17,724,202
  --------------+-----------
    Total.      |$30,397,422
  --------------+-----------


Value in United States Money, of One Ounce Troy of Gold, at different
Degrees of Fineness.

   500 Fine   $10.33.6
   510  ”      10.54.3
   520  ”      10.74.9
   530  ”      10.95.6
   540  ”      11.16.3
   550  ”      11.36.9
   560  ”      11.57.6
   570  ”      11.78.3
   580  ”      11.99.
   590  ”      12.19.6
   600  ”      12.40.3
   610  ”      12.61.
   620  ”      12.81.7
   630  ”      13.02.3
   640  ”      13.23.
   650  ”      13.43.7
   660  ”      13.64.3
   670  ”      13.85.
   680  ”      14.05.7
   690  ”      14.26.3
   700  ”      14.47.
   710  ”      14.67.7
   720  ”      14.88.4
   730  ”      15.09.4
   740  ”      15.28.7
   750  ”      15.50.4
   760  ”      15.71.1
   770  ”      15.91.7
   780  ”      16.12.4
   790  ”      16.33.1
   800  ”      16.53.8
   810  ”      16.74.4
   820  ”      16.95.1
   830  ”      17.15.8
   840  ”      17.36.4
   850  ”      17.57.1
   860  ”      17.77.8
   870  ”      17.98.4
   880  ”      18.19.1
   890  ”      18.39.8
   900  ”      18.60.5
   910  ”      18.81.1
   920  ”      19.01.8
   930  ”      19.22.5
   940  ”      19.43.1
   950  ”      19.63.8
   960  ”      19.84.5
   970  ”      20.05.2
   980  ”      20.25.8
   990  ”      20.46.5
  1000  ”      20.67.2
  --------------------

N. B.—When there is an intermediate degree of fineness, a short
calculation is necessary. For every one-thousandth, add 2.07 cents per
ounce for gold. Thus, one ounce of gold at 992 fine—$20.50.6


Comparison of Expressing the Fineness of Gold in Thousandths, and in
Carats.[29]

   500 Fine 12.00 Carats
   510  ”   12.08    ”
   520  ”   12.15    ”
   530  ”   12.23    ”
   540  ”   12.31    ”
   550  ”   13.07    ”
   560  ”   13.14    ”
   570  ”   13.22    ”
   580  ”   13.29    ”
   590  ”   14.05    ”
   600  ”   14.13    ”
   610  ”   14.20    ”
   620  ”   14.28    ”
   630  ”   15.04    ”
   640  ”   15.11    ”
   650  ”   15.19    ”
   660  ”   15.27    ”
   670  ”   16.03    ”
   680  ”   16.10    ”
   690  ”   16.18    ”
   700  ”   16.25    ”
   710  ”   17.01    ”
   720  ”   17.09    ”
   730  ”   17.17    ”
   740  ”   17.24    ”
   750  ”   18.00    ”
   760  ”   18.08    ”
   770  ”   18.15    ”
   780  ”   18.23    ”
   790  ”   18.31    ”
   800  ”   19.07    ”
   810  ”   19.14    ”
   820  ”   19.22    ”
   830  ”   19.29    ”
   840  ”   20.05    ”
   850  ”   20.13    ”
   860  ”   20.20    ”
   870  ”   20.28    ”
   880  ”   21.04    ”
   890  ”   21.11    ”
   900  ”   21.19    ”
   910  ”   21.27    ”
   920  ”   22.02    ”
   930  ”   22.10    ”
   940  ”   22.18    ”
   950  ”   22.25    ”
   960  ”   23.01    ”
   970  ”   23.09    ”
   980  ”   23.17    ”
   990  ”   23.24    ”
  1000  ”   24.00    ”
  --------------------




U. S. Mint Test for Gold and Silver.


The following is a test for determining whether coin is good or bad.
Use the liquids as near the edge of suspected coin as possible, as that
is the part most worn. A drop of the preparation will have no effect on
genuine coin, while it can be plainly seen on the counterfeit. Coins
should be scraped slightly before using:

TEST FOR GOLD.

  Strong Nitric Acid (36°), 39 parts.
  Muriatic Acid, 1 part.
  Water, 20 parts.

TEST FOR SILVER.

  24 grains Nitre of Silver.
  30 drops Nitric Acid.
   1 ounce Water.

The above tests should be taken in conjunction with _Diameter_,
_Thickness_, and _Weight_, the tests used at the Mint.




GLOSSARY.

_Terms used in treating of Bullion, Mints, Coinage, and Money._


ASSAYING.—Chemical analysis of metals or ores. This term is employed in
reference to mints and coinage, refers particularly to the process for
determining the component parts and relative proportions of a mixed alloy
of gold and silver, or the various alloys used for the manufacture of
minor coins.

REFINING.—Extract of base from precious metals; usually performed by the
aid of heat and oxidizing fluxes.

PARTING.—The separation of gold and silver when the two metals
compose an alloy, either native or artificial, for the purpose of
obtaining the metals, respectively, in the form of fine bars. This is
accomplished, first, by dissolving the silver with acids and subsequently
precipitating; or, second, by converting silver into chloride by heat and
chlorine gas, and then reducing the chloride to a metallic state.

ALLOYING.—Compounding two or more metals together in suitable or legal
proportions for coinage. Gold and silver are alloyed with copper for
standard coins, and alloys are variously made of nickel and copper, or of
copper, tin, and zinc for minor coins.

FINE BARS.—Gold and silver bars resulting from the operations of parting
and refining. Bars containing 99 per cent. of pure metal are generally
considered as fine bars.

UNPARTED BULLION.—Gold containing silver or silver containing gold which
has not been subjected to the parting operation.

AMALGAM.—Gold and silver extracted from ores or other substances by the
use of mercury and left in a porous or spongy condition, when the mercury
is removed by distillation.

FINENESS.—A term indicating the proportion of pure metal contained in a
piece of gold or silver. Fineness is expressed in thousandths; that is,
pure metal is 1000. United States coin is ⁹⁰⁰⁄₁₀₀₀ fine, or decimally
.900 fine. Fineness is estimated by jewelers and workers in the precious
metals by “carats,” pure metal being 24 carats. Thus 22 carats, the
British standard for gold coins, is ²²⁄₂₄, or decimally, 916⅔ fine.

DEPOSIT—MELTING.—The operation of melting a deposit of gold or silver
at the Mint to secure a homogeneity of metals, preliminary to taking a
sample for assaying.

REMEDY OF THE MINT.—The legal variation allowed from the fineness and
weight prescribed by law for the coins.

TRIAL OF THE PYX.—The annual test made by special commissioners of the
fineness and weight of coins reserved from each delivery of coin by the
coiner to the superintendent. These coins are known as Pyx coins, because
kept in a pyx or chest.

REFRACTORY BULLION.—Gold or silver bullion which contains a small
percentage of lead, tin, or antimony, and which is therefore too hard or
brittle to roll, cut, or stamp with facility.

WASTAGE.—The amount of gold and silver lost in the processes which these
metals undergo preparatory to striking the coins. This “wastage” by law
must not exceed a certain percentage of the gross amount of metals worked.

SWEEPINGS.—The ashes, fluxes, crucibles, sweepings, and all other refuse
materials from rooms in which the metals are worked, containing a small
amount of gold and silver.

STANDARD.—The weight and fineness fixed by law for the coins; hence the
term “standard weight” or “standard fineness.”

BASE BULLION.—Gold or silver bullion not fit for coinage purposes, by
reason of the presence of base metals, until refined.

MINT MARK.—The letter or mark on the coin, designating the mint at which
it was struck; as “S” for San Francisco, “C C” for Carson City, “O” for
New Orleans.[30]

MONEY OF ACCOUNT.—The ideal unit, or money term, in which accounts are
stated or transactions made, as the _pound sterling_ of Great Britain,
the _dollar_ of the United States, the _franc_ of France, and the
_reichsmark_ of the German Empire.

COINS OF STANDARD VALUE.—In modern times a government first establishes
a money of account or ideal unit, and then fixes by law the quantity
of gold or silver which shall, in the form of a coin with unlimited
legal-tender power, represent that ideal unit. Such coins, with their
multiples and divisions, are termed “coins of standard value” or
“standard coins.”

SUBSIDIARY COINS.—In the United States silver coins of less denomination
than the dollar, which have a nominal value exceeding their intrinsic or
bullion value, and limited as legal tender to sums not exceeding five
dollars.

MINOR COINS.—Coins of small denominations used for change, and struck
from other metals than gold or silver.

MINT PRICES OF GOLD AND SILVER (COINING VALUE).—The rate per standard
ounce at which the mint converts bullion into legal-tender coins. The
coining rate of an ounce of standard gold bullion, _i. e._, bullion
⁹⁰⁰⁄₁₀₀₀ fine in the United States is $18,604+. The coining rate of the
silver dollar of 412½ grains, discontinued by law April 1, 1873, was
$1.16⁴⁄₁₁ per standard ounce.

THE BASIS OF THE MONEY SYSTEM of all civilized nations is gold or silver,
or both, in a ratio fixed by law. The relative valuation of the two
metals in the coins of nations using the double standard, is about one of
gold to _fifteen and a half of silver_.


_Partial List of Medals in Copper-Bronzed, also, in Gold and Silver,
which may be obtained at the Mint._

                                                           Size.    Price.
                         ARMY.

  Washington before Boston                                   42     $2.50
  Colonel William Washington, for Cowpens                    28      1.50
  Major-General Harrison, for the Thames                     40      1.50
  Major-General Scott, for Chippewa and Niagara              40      1.50
  Major-General Gaines, for Fort Erie                        40      1.50
  Major-General Porter, for Chippewa, Niagara, and Erie      40      1.50
  Major-General Macomb, Battle of Plattsburgh                40      1.50
  Major-General Jackson, Battle of New Orleans               40      1.50
  Major-General Taylor, Palo Alto                            40      1.50
  Major-General Taylor, for Monterey                         40      1.50
  Major-General Taylor, for Buena Vista                      56      3.00
  Major-General Scott, for Battles in Mexico                 56      3.00
  Major-General Grant                                        64      8.00
  Colonel Lee, “Light-Horse Harry”                           29      1.50
  Count DeFleury, for Stony Point                            15      2.25

                          NAVY.

  John Paul Jones, for Serapis                               36      2.00
  Captain Hull, for Capture of Guerriere                     40      1.50
  Captain Jacob Jones, for Capture of the Frolic             40      1.50
  Captain Decatur, for Capture of the Macedonian             40      1.50
  Captain Bainbridge, for Capture of the Java                40      1.50
  Captain Lawrence, for Capture of the Peacock               40      1.50
  Captain Burrows, for Capture of the Boxer                  40      1.50
  Captain Perry, for Capture of British Fleet on Lake Erie   40      1.50
  Captain Elliott, for Capture of British Fleet on Lake Erie 40      1.50
  Captain Warrington, for Capture of the Epervier            40      1.50
  Captain Blakely, for Capture of the Reindeer               40      1.50
  Captain MacDonough, for Capture of the British Fleet on
    Lake Champlain                                           40      1.50
  Captain Henley, Capture of British Fleet on Lake Champlain 40      1.50
  Lieut. Cassin, Capture of British Fleet on Lake Champlain  40      1.50
  Captain Biddle, for Capture of the Penguin                 40      1.50
  Captain Stewart, for Capture of the Cyane and Levant       40      1.50
  Captain Edw. Preble before Tripoli                         40      1.50

                       PRESIDENTIAL.

  John Adams                                                 32      1.50
  Thomas Jefferson                                           47      2.50
  James Madison                                              40      1.50
  James Monroe                                               40      1.50
  John Q. Adams                                              40      1.50
  Andrew Jackson                                             40      1.50
  Martin Van Buren                                           40      1.50
  John Tyler                                                 40      1.50
  James K. Polk                                              40      1.50
  Zachary Taylor                                             40      1.50
  Millard Fillmore                                           40      1.50
  Franklin Pierce                                            40      1.50
  James Buchanan                                             48      2.00
  Abraham Lincoln                                            48      2.00
  Andrew Johnson                                             48      2.00
  Ulysses S. Grant                                           48      2.00
  Rutherford B. Hayes                                        48      2.00
  James A. Garfield                                          48      2.00
  Chester A. Arthur                                          48      2.00

                   SUB-NATIONAL MEDALS.

  Captain Perry (State of Pennsylvania), for Capture of the
    British Fleet on Lake Erie                               40      1.50
  Pennsylvania Volunteers, Action on Lake Erie               40      1.50
  Major-General Scott (Commonwealth of Virginia)             56      3.00

                   MISCELLANEOUS AMERICAN.

  Professor Agassiz Medal                                    30      1.50
  Colonel Armstrong, for Destruction of the Indian Village of
    Kittanning                                               27      1.00
  Captains Creighton, Low, and Stouffer, Wreck of Steamer
    San Francisco                                            47      2.00
  Captains Creighton, Low, and Stouffer, Wreck of Steamer
    San Francisco, by Congress                               50      3.00
  Cornelius Vanderbilt, by Congress                          48      2.50
  First Steam Coinage                                        16       .25
  Commodore M. C. Perry, from Merchants of Boston            40      2.00
  Pacific Railroad Medal                                     29      1.25
  Emancipation Proclamation Medal                            29      1.00
  Cyrus W. Field, Atlantic Cable Medal                       64      8.00
  Dr. Joseph Pancoast                                        48      3.00
  Grant Indian Peace Medal                                   40      3.00
  Garfield Indian Peace Medal (oblong)                               2.00
  Arthur Indian Peace Medal      ”                                   2.00
  “Let Us Have Peace”                                        29      1.25
  Metis (Shipwreck) Medal                                    42      1.50
  John Horn (Life Saving) Medal                              30      1.00
  U. S. Diplomatic Medal, July 4, 1776                       45      2.00
  Valley Forge Centennial                                    25       .50
  Great Seal Medal                                           39      1.50

                 DIRECTORS OF THE MINT.

  David Rittenhouse                                          28      1.25
  Robert M. Patterson                                        42      1.50
  James Ross Snowden                                         50      2.50
  James Pollock                                              29      1.25
  H. R. Linderman                                            50      2.00
  James P. Kimball

                 SUPERINTENDENTS.

  A. Loudon Snowden                                          50      2.00
  Daniel M. Fox

                 FINE GOLD MEDALS.
                (_See Rule 3._)

  Time Increases His Fame                                    16     12.00
  James A. Garfield                                          16      9.00
  Commencement of Cabinet                                    12      6.25
  Washington and Jackson                                     10      4.50
  Lincoln and Garfield                                       10      4.50

                 FINE SILVER MEDALS.
                (_See Rule 3._)

  Cabinet Medal                                              37      6.00
  Presidency Relinquished                                    25      3.00
  Allegiance Medal                                           18      1.00
  Time Increases His Fame                                    16       .75
  James A. Garfield                                          16       .60
  Pennsylvania Bi-Centennial                                 16       .50
  Commencement of Cabinet                                    12       .35
  Washington and Jackson                                     10       .25
  Washington and Lincoln                                     10       .25
  Washington and Grant                                       10       .25
  Washington Wreath                                          10       .25
  Lincoln and Grant                                          10       .25
  Lincoln Broken Column                                      10       .25
  Lincoln and Garfield                                       10       .25
  Valley Forge Centennial                                    25      1.50

The diameter of the medals is expressed by numbers, each of which
indicates the sixteenth of an inch.

Medals struck to order in gold, silver, or bronze, from dies of public
institutions.




MEDALS AND CABINET COINS.


MINT OF THE UNITED STATES.

                                              Philadelphia, January, 1888.

_Regulations._

1. The price of Medals, Proof Coins, Pattern Pieces, &c., shall be fixed
by the Superintendent of the Mint, with the approval of the Director.

2. No Coin or Pattern Piece shall be struck after the year of its date,
nor in any other metal or alloy than that in which the Coin was issued
or intended to be issued, except experimental pieces in Copper or other
soft metal to prove the dies, under the direction of the Superintendent.
The dies shall be defaced at the end of each year, and such impressions
as the Engraver may find necessary to take while preparing the dies shall
be destroyed in the presence of the Superintendent when the dies are
finished.

3. When a Pattern Piece is adopted and used in the regular coinage in
the same year it shall then be issued as a proof, at a price near its
current value; or if it comes out early in the year, it will be placed in
the regular Proof Set. The Superintendent will furnish, without charge,
on application therefor, a Pattern Piece to any incorporated Numismatic
Society in the United States. In such cases, if the pattern is in Gold or
Silver, the value of the metal will be required.

4. The price of the regular Proof Set of Gold Coins will be Forty-three
Dollars; the Proof Set of Silver and Minor Coins, Three Dollars. Single
Gold Pieces, in proof, are sold at Twenty-five Cents each above their
intrinsic value. Silver Sets are not separated. Proof sets are furnished
of the current year only. The Mint has no Coins or Sets of back dates for
sale.

5. The Coins of the United States are:—

      GOLD.             SILVER.        COPPER-NICKEL.
  Double-Eagle,      Dollar,            Five Cents.
  Eagle,             Half-Dollar,       Three Cents.
  Half-Eagle,        Quarter-Dollar,
  Three-Dollar,      Dime.               BRONZE.
  Quarter-Eagle,                        One Cent.
  Dollar.

The coinage of the Silver Dollar of 412½ grains, the Five and Three-Cent
Silver Pieces and Bronze Two-Cent Pieces was discontinued in 1873, but
the Silver Dollar was restored by the Act of February 28, 1878.

All orders must be sent to Superintendent of the Mint at Philadelphia.

                                                         DANIEL M. FOX,
                                                         _Superintendent_.




PORTRAIT OF WASHINGTON.


The frontispiece in the bound volume of this book, is an exact
reproduction, by the Gutekunst phototype process, of the obverse of the
Washington medal executed by Charles C. Wright, about the year 1850,
and particularly described on page 34 of the “Medallic Portraits of
Washington,” by W. S. Baker, lately published (the price of which is
five dollars). The bust was modeled by Wright, after the original by the
celebrated French sculptor, Jean Antoine Houdon, executed from a cast
taken from the face of Washington at Mount Vernon, in October, 1785,
and is considered by good judges to be the best medallic portrait of
Washington yet produced. An impression of the medal is in the Washington
Cabinet of the Mint; the reverse presents an excellent copy of Trumbull’s
well known picture of the Declaration of Independence.




JANUARY 1888.

COIN (APPROXIMATE) PRICE CURRENT.

Prepared by Mason & Co., Coin Dealers, 175 Washington St., Boston. Mass.

                          GOLD COLONIAL COINS.

                                                          FINE.     GOOD.
  1785, Justice-eye, “Immune Columbia”                  $600.00   $500.00
  1787, Sun-eagle, “Nova Eboraca”                        300.00    150.00

                            SILVER COLONIALS.

  1652, N. E. XII, New-England shilling                  $35.00    $25.00
  1652,   ”   VI,     ”        sixpence                   40.00     20.00
  1652,   ”   III,    ”        threepence                100.00     40.00
  1650, Pinetree XII, “Masathusets” shilling              45.00     30.00
  1652,    ”      ”   “Massachusets”   ”                  10.00      5.00
  1652,    ”     Smaller and thicker   ”                   8.00      3.00
  1652,    ”     XII, “Masatusets” variety shilling       25.00     15.00
  1652,    ”     VI, “Masachusets” sixpence               15.00      5.00
  1652,    ”     III,      ”       threepence             15.00      5.00
  1652,    ”     II,       ”       twopence               15.00      5.00
  1652, Oaktree XII,       ”       shilling                5.00      3.00
  1652,    ”    VI,        ”       sixpence                6.00      4.00
  1652,    ”    III,       ”       threepence              8.00      4.00
  1662,    ”    II,        ”       twopence                8.00      4.00
  1662,    ”    I,         ”       penny                  30.00     10.00
  1659, head, shield, Lord Baltimore shilling             15.00     10.00
  1659,    ”            ”      ”     sixpence             20.00     10.00
  1659,    ”            ”      ”     fourpence            20.00     10.00
  1760, Charles III. rose, Florida half dollar            30.00     20.00
  1773, George III. shield, Virginia shilling             20.00     15.00
  1783, U. S. 1000-eye, “Nova Constellatio”              200.00    100.00
  1783,    ”   500-eye,    ”        ”                    150.00     75.00
  1785,    ”  Justice-eye, “Nova Constellatio” quarter
                 dollar                                   75.00     40.00
  1783, hands clasped, Annapolis shilling                 15.00      5.00
  1783,    ”               ”     sixpence                 15.00      8.00
  1783,    ”               ”     threepence               15.00      8.00
  1790, head “Standish Barry”        ”                    25.00     10.00
  1796, female head, “Castorland” half dollar              2.00      1.50

                              TIN COLONIAL.

  1690, horseman-shields, James II. tin piece             $3.00     $1.50
  1776, Sun-dial, “Continental Currency”                  15.00      5.00

                         COLONIAL COPPER COINS.

  1616, hog-ship, “Summer Islands” shilling                       $300.00
  1616,     ”         ”      ”     sixpence                        400.00
  1694, Elephant, “God preserve Carolina,” half dollar   $40.00     20.00
            ”     “God preserve New England”             150.00     50.00
            ”     “God preserve London”                    2.50      1.50
  1721, 2 L’s, “Col’s Francoises,” Louisiana               2.50      1.00
  1722, 2 L’s,    ”        ”           ”                   2.50      1.00
  1667, L’s, “Col’s Francoises,” stamped R. F., Louisiana
          ha’penny                                         2.00      1.00
  1767, L’s, “Col’s Francoises,” without R. F., Louisiana
          ha’penny                                         4.00      1.50
  1766, head ship, no stamps, Pitt halfpenny               2.50      1.50
  1773, George III. shield, Virginia halfpenny             1.00       .25
  1773,    ”        ”   smaller size, Virginia halfpenny    .75       .25
        U. S. A., 13 bars, Bar cent                        3.50      2.00
  1722, George I. rose, “Rosa Americana” penny             4.00      1.50
  1722,   ”        ”      ”      ”       halfpenny         2.50      1.00
  1722,   ”        ”      ”      ”       farthing          3.00      1.50
  1722,   ”        ”      ”      ”       farthing          4.00      2.00
  1723,   ”        ”  not crowned, “Rosa Americana”
          farthing                                        15.00      5.00
        George I. rose, “Rosa sine spina,” halfpenny      30.00     15.00
  1723, George I. crowned rose, “Rosa Americana,” penny    4.00      2.00
  1723, George I. crowned rose, “Rosa Americana,”
          halfpenny                                        2.50      1.50
  1724, George I. crowned rose, “Rosa Americana,”
          halfpenny                                       15.00     10.00
  1723, George I. crowned rose, “Rosa Americana,”
          farthing                                         2.50      1.50
  1723, George I. crowned rose, “Rosa Americana,”
          halfpenny                                        5.00      3.00
  1733, George II. crowned rose, “Rosa Americana” penny   30.00     20.00
  1737, Three hammers, “Connecticut” cent                 40.00     20.00
  1737, “I am good copper,” cent                          40.00     20.00
  1739,    ”    ”     ”     Granby cent                   40.00     20.00
  1737, “Connecticut,” Granby cent                        40.00     20.00
  1737, Axe, “I cut my way through,” Granby cent          40.00     20.00
  No date, axe, “I cut my way through,” Granby cent       40.00     20.00
  1778, Head Indian, “Non dependens,” cent                25.00     15.00
  1783, U. S. eye, “Nova Constellatio,” cent               1.00       .40
  1783,   ”    ”     ”      ”             ”                1.00       .40
  1785, U. S. eye, “Nova Constellatio,” cent               1.00       .30
  1783, Liberty caged, “Georgius Triumpho,” cent           3.00      1.25
  1787, Indian stars, “Inimica Tyrannis,” cent            40.00     20.00
  1785,      ”    in circle, “Inimica Tyrannis,” cent     40.00     20.00
       Scroll-triangle, Kentucky cent, plain edge          3.50      2.00
             ”          lettered edge, Kentucky cent       3.50      2.00
  1796, Britannia-children, British settlements           25.00     15.00
  1787, Indian-eagle, Massachusetts cent                   1.00       .40
  1787,        ”            ”       half-cent              3.00      1.25
  1788,        ”            ”       cent                   1.00       .50
  1788,        ”            ”       half-cent              3.00      1.25
  1787, Sun-dial links, “We are one,” Franklin cent         .50       .25

                             NEW YORK CENTS.

  1786, Head, Justice; “Non vi virtute vici,”            $75.00    $40.00
  1787, Indian-eagle, “Neo Eboracus,”                     50.00     30.00
  1787,      ”     arms of New York, “Excelsior,”         40.00     20.00
  1787, George Clinton arms of New York, “Excelsior,”     50.00     25.00
  1786, Eagle, arms of New York, “Excelsior,”             60.00     30.00
  1787,   ”      ”        ”          ”                    60.00     30.00
  1787, Justice-eagle, “Immunis Columbia,”                 8.00      4.00
  1787, Head, Liberty to right, “Nova Eborac,”             2.00       .50
  1787, Head, Liberty to left, “Nova Eborac,”              2.00       .75

                             VERMONT CENTS.

  1785, Head Justice, “Immune Columbia”                  $15.00    $10.00
  1785, Justice-eye, “Immune Columbia”                    25.00     15.00
  1785, Sun-eye, “Vermontis Respublica”                    3.00      1.00
  1785,    ”     “Vermontes-Res-Publica”                   5.00      2.00
  1786,    ”     “Vermontensium Respublica”                2.50      1.00
  1786, Head, Britannia “Vermon Auctori”                    .60       .30
  1787,   ”       ”         ”      ”                        .50       .25
  1788,   ”       ”         ”      ”                        .75       .30
  1786, Baby head, Britannia “Vermon Auctori”              1.50       .50
  1787, Head, Britannia “Vermon,” “Et lib Inde”            1.00       .50
  1787,   ”       ”         ”     “Britannia,”             1.00       .40
  1787,   ”       ”  George III., “rex Inde et lib”        2.00      1.00

                            NEW JERSEY CENTS.

  1786, Horse head, shield, “Nova Cæsarea”                $1.00     $0.30
  1786, Horse head, shield (date under beam),
          “Nova Cæsarea”                                 100.00     75.00
  1787, Horse head, shield, large size, “Nova Cæsarea”      .60       .25
  1787,   ”    ”      ”     smaller, “Nova Cæsarea”         .30       .10
  1787,   ”    ”      ”     “E pluribs,” “Nova Cæsarea”    2.00      1.00
  1788,   ”    ”      ”     “Nova Cæsarea”                  .50       .20
  1788,   ”    ”      ”     Fox type, “Nova Cæsarea”       1.50       .40
  1788, Horse head to left, shield, “Nova Cæsarea”         4.00      1.00
  1787, Justice-shield, “Immunis Columbia”                25.00     15.00

                           CONNECTICUT CENTS.

  1787, Head to right, Britannia “Auctori Connec”         $0.25     $0.10
  1785-6-8, Head to right, Britannia “Auctori Connec”       .50       .20
  1785, (Negro head) Britannia “Auctori Connec”            1.00       .50
  1785, (Laughing head) Britannia “Auctori Connec”         1.50       .75
  1785, Head to left, Britannia “Auctori Connec”            .50       .20
  1786-7-8, Head to left, Britannia “Auctori Connec”        .50       .25
  1786-7,     ”       ”        ”    “Et lib Inde Connec”   1.00       .50
  1787-8,     ”       ”        ”    “Auctori Connec”       1.00      1.30

    There are many more minor types of the Connecticut and New
    Jersey 5 cents to 25 cents, etc.

                             SILVER DOLLARS.

  1794, flowing hair                                    $125.50    $50.00
  1795,    ”     ”                                         3.00      1.50
  1795, fillet head                                        3.50      1.50
  1796                                                     4.00      2.00
  1797, 6 stars facing                                     5.00      2.50
  1797, 7   ”     ”                                        4.00      2.50
  1798, 13  ”   small eagle                                6.00      4.00
  1798, 15  ”    ”     ”                                  12.00      8.00
  1798, 13  ”   large eagle                                2.50      2.00
  1799, 5   ”   facing                                     7.00      5.00
  1799, 6   ”     ”                                        2.00      1.60
  1800, spread eagle                                       3.00      1.50
  1801                                                     5.00      2.00
  1802                                                     4.00      1.50
  1803                                                     3.00      2.00
  1804                                                  1000.00    500.00
  1836, name in field                                     40.00     23.00
  1836, flying eagle                                      10.00      6.00
  1838,   ”      ”                                        50.00     25.00
  1839,   ”      ”                                        30.00     20.00
  1840, Liberty seated                                     2.25      1.60
  1841                                                     2.00      1.60
  1842                                                     2.00      1.60
  1843                                                     2.25      1.60
  1844                                                     2.00      1.00
  1845                                                     2.50      1.00
  1846                                                     2.00      1.00
  1847                                                     1.75      1.00
  1848                                                     3.00      1.25
  1849                                                     1.75      1.00
  1850                                                     2.00      1.10
  1851                                                    40.00     30.00
  1852                                                    50.00     30.00
  1853                                                     2.00      1.50
  1854                                                     8.00      6.00
  1855                                                     6.00      4.00
  1856                                                     2.50      1.75
  1857                                                     4.00      2.00
  1858                                                    40.00     30.00
  1859                                                     1.50      1.40
  1860                                                     1.80      1.50
  1861                                                     1.80      1.50
  1862                                                     1.80      1.50
  1863                                                     1.80      1.50
  1864                                                     1.80      1.50
  1865                                                     1.80      1.50
  1866                                                     2.00      1.60
  1867                                                     1.80      1.50
  1868                                                     2.00      1.75
  1869                                                     1.50      1.40
  1870                                                     1.50      1.40
  1871                                                     1.50      1.40
  1872                                                     1.30      1.25
  1873                                                     2.00      1.60
  1873, trade dollar                                       2.00      1.50
  1874,   ”     ”                                          1.75      1.40
  1875,   ”     ”                                          1.50      1.40
  1876,   ”     ”                                          1.20      1.15
  1877,   ”     ”                                          1.20      1.10
  1878,   ”     ”                                          1.20      1.15
  1879-1884, proof                                         2.00      1.75

                              HALF DOLLARS.

  1794, flowing hair                                      $8.00     $5.00
  1795,    ”     ”                                         2.50      1.50
  1796, 15 stars                                          75.00     50.00
  1796, 16   ”                                           100.00     60.00
  1797, 15   ”                                            75.00     40.00
  1801, fillet head                                        8.00      5.00
  1802                                                    10.00      8.00
  1803                                                     3.00      1.50
  1805                                                     3.00      1.50
  1806                                                     1.50      1.25
  1807                                                     1.50      1.25
  1807, head to left                                       2.00      1.50
  1808                                                     2.00      1.00
  1809                                                     1.00       .75
  1810                                                     1.00       .75
  1811                                                     1.25       .75
  1812                                                     1.00       .75
  1813                                                     1.00       .75
  1814                                                     1.00       .75
  1815                                                     8.00      5.00

    Half dollars from 1817 to 1885, inclusive (excepting 1851 and
    1852, worth from $2.50 to $5.00), from 75c. to $1.00.

                            QUARTER DOLLARS.

  1796, fillet head                                       $8.00     $4.00
  1804                                                     7.00      3.00
  1805                                                     3.00      1.50
  1806                                                     2.00      1.00
  1807                                                     2.50      1.25
  1815, head to left                                       2.00       .50
  1818                                                     1.00       .75
  1819                                                     1.50      1.00
  1820                                                     1.00      0.75
  1821                                                     1.00       .75
  1822                                                     2.00      1.00
  1823                                                    75.00     30.00
  1824                                                     2.00      1.00
  1825                                                     1.00       .75
  1827                                                   100.00       .50

    Quarter dollars, from 1827 to 1885, inclusive (excepting that
    of 1853, without arrow heads, worth from $6.00 to $10.00),
    worth 30c. to 50c.

                           TWENTY-CENT PIECES.

  1875, Liberty seated                                    $0.40     $0.30
  1876,    ”      ”                                         .60       .50
  1877,    ”      ”                                        5.00      4.00
  1878,    ”      ”                                        5.00      4.00

                                 DIMES.

  1796, fillet head                                       $4.00     $2.00
  1797, 13 stars                                           6.00      3.00
  1797, 16   ”                                             8.00      4.00
  1798, fillet head                                        6.00      3.00
  1800                                                     8.00      5.00
  1801                                                     6.00      4.50
  1802                                                    10.00      6.00
  1803                                                     4.00      2.50
  1804                                                    12.00     10.00
  1805                                                     1.50       .75
  1807                                                     2.00      1.00
  1809, head to left                                       3.00      2.00
  1811                                                     3.00      2.00

    Dimes, from 1811 to 1885, inclusive (excepting that of 1846,
    worth $1.00 to $2.50), from 20c. to 35c.

                               HALF DIMES.

  1794, flowing hair                                      $6.00     $4.00
  1795,    ”     ”                                         2.00      1.00
  1796, 15 stars                                           6.00      4.00
  1797, 15   ”                                             5.00      3.00
  1797, 16   ”                                             4.00      2.00
  1800, fillet head                                        2.00      1.50
  1801                                                     5.00      3.00
  1802                                                   125.00     80.00
  1803                                                     5.00      3.00
  1805                                                    15.00      5.00

    Half dimes, from 1805 to 1873, inclusive (excepting 1846, worth
    from $1.00 to $2.50), from 10 to 30 cents.

                        SILVER THREE-CENT PIECES.

    From 1851 to 1872, inclusive, worth from 5 to 50 cents,
    according to condition.

  1873                                                    $2.00     $1.50

                        NICKEL FIVE-CENT PIECES.

                                                         PROOFS.    FINE.
  1866                                                    $0.15     $0.10
  1867, with rays                                          2.50       .50
  1867, without rays                                        .15       .10
  1868                                                      .15       .10
  1869                                                      .15       .10
  1870                                                      .15       .10
  1871                                                      .15       .10
  1872                                                      .15       .10
  1873                                                      .15       .10
  1874                                                      .15       .10
  1875                                                      .20       .15
  1876                                                      .15       .10
  1877                                                     2.00      1.00
  1878                                                      .40       .25
  1879                                                      .12       .10

                        NICKEL THREE-CENT PIECES.

  1865                                                    $0.15     $0.08
  1866                                                      .15       .08
  1867                                                      .15       .08
  1868                                                      .15       .08
  1869                                                      .15       .08
  1870                                                      .15       .08
  1871                                                      .15       .08
  1872                                                      .15       .08
  1873                                                      .15       .08
  1874                                                      .15       .08
  1875                                                      .20       .15
  1876                                                      .10       .08
  1877                                                     2.00      1.00
  1878                                                      .25       .20
  1879-1888, proofs                                         .25       .05

                            TWO-CENT PIECES.

  1864                                                    $0.40     $0.10
  1865                                                      .40       .10
  1866                                                      .40       .10
  1867                                                      .40       .10
  1868                                                      .40       .10
  1869                                                      .40       .08
  1870                                                      .40       .08
  1871                                                      .25       .15
  1872                                                      .50       .40
  1873                                                     1.25       .75

                              COPPER CENTS.

                                                          FINE.     GOOD.
  1793, chain America                                    $20.00    $10.00
  1793,   ”      ”                                        10.00      6.00
  1793, wreath                                             8.00      5.00
  1793, lettered edge                                      9.00      6.00
  1793, liberty cap                                       25.00      8.00
  1794,    ”     ”                                         1.50       .75
  1795,    ”    lettered edge                              4.50      1.50
  1795, liberty, thin die                                  1.50       .50
  1796,    ”      ”    ”                                   2.00       .75
  1796, fillet head                                        2.00      1.00
  1797                                                     1.50       .40
  1798                                                     1.00       .10
  1799                                                    35.00     15.00
  1800                                                     1.00       .50
  1801                                                     1.00       .50
  1802                                                      .50       .25
  1803                                                      .50       .20
  1804                                                    10.50      6.00
  1805                                                     1.50       .50
  1806                                                     1.25       .75
  1807                                                     1.10       .40
  1808, head to left                                       2.00       .75
  1809                                                     4.00      1.50

    From 1810 to 1857, inclusive, worth from 2c. to $3, according
    to condition.

                        NICKEL AND BRONZE CENTS.

  1856, eagle nickel                                      $5.00     $3.50
  1857                                                      .50       .01
  1858                                                      .50       .01
  1859, Indian head                                         .50       .01
  1860                                                      .25       .01
  1861                                                      .25       .01
  1862                                                      .25       .01
  1863                                                      .25       .01
  1864                                                      .25       .01
  1864, bronze                                              .10       .01
  1865                                                      .10       .01
  1866                                                      .10       .01
  1867                                                      .10       .01
  1868                                                      .05       .01
  1869                                                      .05       .01
  1870                                                      .05       .01
  1871                                                      .05       .01
  1872                                                      .05       .01
  1873                                                      .05       .01
  1874                                                      .05       .01
  1875                                                      .05       .01
  1876                                                      .05       .01
  1877                                                      .50       .05
  1878                                                      .05       .01
  1879-1887                                                 .05       .01

                                 HALF CENTS.

  1793, liberty cap                                       $5.00     $2.50
  1794,    ”     ”                                         2.50      1.50
  1795,    ”    lettered edge                              3.00      1.50
  1795, liberty, thin die                                  2.00      1.00
  1796,    ”     cap                                      40.00     20.00
  1797,    ”      ”                                        2.00      1.00
  1797,    ”     lettered edge                             5.00      3.00
  1800, fillet head                                        1.00       .50
  1802                                                     5.00      3.00
  1803                                                      .50       .25
  1804                                                      .25       .10
  1805                                                      .50       .25
  1806                                                      .50       .25
  1807                                                      .50       .25
  1808                                                      .50       .25
  1809, head to left                                        .25       .15
  1810                                                     2.50      1.00
  1811                                                     3.00      1.50
  1825                                                      .40       .20
  1826                                                      .25       .15
  1828, 12 stars                                            .40       .20
  1828, 13   ”                                              .20       .10
  1829                                                      .30       .20
  1831 (proof)                                            12.00
  1832                                                      .20       .15
  1833                                                      .20       .10
  1834                                                      .20       .10
  1835                                                      .20       .10
  1836 (proof)                                            12.00
  1840    ”                                                8.00
  1841    ”                                                8.00
  1842    ”                                               15.00
  1843    ”                                               10.00
  1844    ”                                               10.00
  1845    ”                                               10.00
  1846    ”                                               10.00
  1847    ”                                               10.00
  1848    ”                                                8.00
  1849    ”    small date                                  8.00
  1849, large date                                          .40       .25
  1850                                                      .30       .20
  1851                                                      .25       .10
  1852 (proof)                                            10.00
  1853                                                      .15       .10
  1854                                                      .25       .15
  1855                                                      .25       .15
  1856                                                      .20       .15
  1857                                                      .30       .25

                           GOLD DOUBLE EAGLES.

  1849                                                 $1000.00
  1850, head to left                                      25.00    $20.00
  1851                                                    25.00     20.00
  1852                                                    25.00     20.00
  1853                                                    21.00     20.00
  1854                                                    21.00     20.00
  1855-79, consecutive                                    21.00     20.00

                              GOLD EAGLES.

  1795, head to left                                     $15.00    $13.00
  1796, 16 stars                                          20.00     15.00
  1797, 16 spread eagle                                   15.00     13.00
  1798, 13 stars                                          16.00     14.00
  1799, 13 spread eagle                                   14.00     12.00
  1800                                                    14.00     13.00
  1801                                                    14.00     13.00
  1803                                                    15.00     13.00
  1804                                                    15.00     13.00
  1838, head to left                                      15.00     13.00
  1839                                                    15.00     12.00
  1840-68, only proofs worth premium.

                            GOLD HALF EAGLES.

  1795, head to right                                    $10.00     $8.00
  1796, 16 stars                                          15.00     10.00
  1797, 16 spread eagle                                   12.00     10.00
  1798, 13 stars,   ”                                      8.00      7.00
  1799, ”    ”                                            10.00      8.00
  1800                                                    10.00      8.00
  1801                                                    30.00     20.00
  1802                                                    10.00      8.00
  1803                                                     8.00      7.00
  1804                                                     8.00      7.00
  1805                                                     8.00      7.00
  1806                                                     8.00      7.00
  1807                                                     8.00      7.00
  1808, head to left                                       8.00      7.00
  1809                                                     8.00      7.00
  1810                                                     8.00      7.00
  1811                                                     8.00      7.00
  1812                                                     8.00      7.00
  1813                                                     8.00      7.00
  1814                                                     8.00      7.00
  1815                                                   100.00     50.00
  1818                                                     8.00      7.00
  1819                                                     8.00      7.00
  1820                                                     8.00      7.00
  1821                                                     8.00      7.00
  1822                                                     8.00      7.00
  1823-54, consecutive.                                    6.00      5.75
  1855-79, only proofs worth premium.

                           GOLD THREE DOLLARS.

  1854, head to left                                      $4.00     $3.75
  1855                                                     3.75      3.50
  1856                                                     4.00      3.75
  1857-87, consecutive                                     3.25      3.00
  1875                                                    40.00     25.00

                          GOLD QUARTER EAGLES.

  1796, without stars                                     $8.00     $6.00
  1796, 16 stars                                          10.00      6.00
  1797, 16    ”                                            7.00      5.00
  1798, 13    ”                                            5.00      4.00
  1802                                                     6.00      5.00
  1804                                                     5.00      4.00
  1805                                                     5.00      4.00
  1806                                                     5.00      4.00
  1807                                                     5.00      4.00
  1808, head to left                                       5.00      4.00
  1821                                                     5.00      4.00
  1824                                                     5.00      4.00
  1825                                                     5.00      4.00
  1826                                                     8.00      6.00
  1827-49, consecutive                                     4.00      3.50
  1850                                                     3.25      3.00
  1851                                                     3.25      3.00
  1852                                                     3.25      3.00
  1853-87, consecutive                                     3.00      2.50

                              GOLD DOLLARS.

  1848, head to left                                      $1.50     $1.30
  1850                                                     1.50      1.30
  1851                                                     1.40      1.25
  1852                                                     1.40      1.25
  1853-87, consecutive                                     1.40      1.25

                            CALIFORNIA GOLD.

  $50 1851, octagon and round                                  $65.00
  $20 (Territorial), varieties                                  30.00
  Eagle,      ”          ”                                      15.00
  Half eagle, ”          ”                                      10.00
  Quarter ”   ”          ”                                       5.00
  Dollar (California), octagon                                   1.25
  Dollar (California), circular                                  1.25
  Half doll., octagon, diff. dates                                .55
    ”    ”    circular,      ”                                    .55
  Quar.  ”       ”           ”                                    .35
    ”    ”    octagon,       ”                                    .35
  Bechtler dollar (N. Carolina)                                  1.50
  Bechtler ¼ eagle    ”                                          3.50

NOTE.—Persons who wish to buy or sell rare coins, or to ascertain their
present value are recommended to write to Mason & Co., coin dealers, 175
Washington street, Boston, Mass.—EDITOR MINT BOOK.




NOTE TO THE VISITORS OF THE PHILADELPHIA MINT.


As there are many places of interest in “=Penn’s Favorite City=,” the
publisher of this work would respectfully suggest that visitors, who have
the leisure, should see some of the well-known institutions of “The City
of Brotherly Love.” Among the rare places of interest, after the United
States Mint, is 1st.—=THE NEW PUBLIC BUILDINGS= (in same square), known
as the =NEW CITY HALL, the Largest and Finest in the World=, surpassing
even the =Capitol at Washington=. 2d.—=FAIRMOUNT PARK=, the largest and
most beautiful public pleasure ground in the United States, embracing
nearly three thousand acres, on both sides of the Schuylkill River,
from Fairmount Water Works to Indian Rock, on the romantic Wissahickon.
3d.—=GIRARD COLLEGE=, where eleven hundred and fifty Orphan Boys are
maintained, clothed and educated through the bountiful munificence of
Philadelphia’s great benefactor, STEPHEN GIRARD. 4th.—=WANAMAKER’S GREAT
STORE=, East of and almost adjoining the Mint. This immense establishment
(the largest of the kind in the World) has grown to such vast proportions
during the past decade that we feel compelled to give it a brief notice,
as it has become one of the features of our city, and an object of
interest to our visitors. The building itself is unique; it occupies
an entire square, viz:—from Thirteenth to Juniper and from Market to
Chestnut Streets—entrance on each of the four streets. The flooring space
occupied in the interior, including first floor, basement and galleries,
embraces more than twelve acres, and all this immense space is occupied
with such goods as everybody, at some time in life, feels the necessity
of purchasing. The general arrangement and classification of goods from
all nations (there being over fifty separate and distinct departments),
suggests a reproduction of the =Main Building of our late great
Centennial Exposition=, with the =Department of Public Comfort= added.
One of the great features of this Mammoth Bazaar is that visitors are
made to feel at home, every provision being made for their convenience.
There are commodious Retiring and Reading Rooms on either floor. One’s
Satchel and Parcels are checked without cost, and no one is importuned to
purchase. Visitors will find it hard to resist the =Tempting Offers= and
=Low Prices= marked on the goods. 5th.—=INDEPENDENCE HALL=, (The Nation’s
Birth-place) Chestnut Street between Fifth and Sixth Streets; =National
Museum=, in same building, containing many interesting relics of the
Revolution and of Washington’s Camp Life; The =Old Liberty Bell= hanging
in the hallway leading to =Independence Square=, where the Declaration
of Independence was read to the people, July 4th, 1776. 6th.—=ACADEMY
OF FINE ARTS=, Broad Street (west side) between Arch and Race Streets,
should be visited by all lovers of the Fine Arts. 7th.—The =NEW MASONIC
TEMPLE=, Northeast corner Broad and Filbert Streets. Visiting days every
Thursday. 8th.—The =NEW POST OFFICE= and =U. S. COURT BUILDING=. This
is one of the finest buildings of the kind in the country, and well
worthy of a visit; also, the =NEW “RECORD” BUILDING=, adjoining. 9th.—The
=BURIAL PLACES OF BENJAMIN and DEBORA FRANKLIN= can be seen at South-east
corner Fifth and Arch Streets. 10th.—There are other notable places of
interest in the City Of “Brotherly Love,” among which may be mentioned
=CARPENTERS’ HALL, UNION LEAGUE, DEAF AND DUMB AND BLIND ASYLUMS, LAUREL
HILL CEMETERY, PENNSYLVANIA AND WILL’S HOSPITALS=, and the hundred and
one other benevolent institutions for which Philadelphia is justly
celebrated.




FOOTNOTES


[1] Collectors estimate the loss to numismatography as very great by
reason of the temptation the gold possesses for hoarding, and they are
possibly the only class of people who have any apology to offer for the
miser. Yet the world is debtor to this despised habit for some of its
most invaluable specimens of art, and important corroborative history of
the old world.

[2] Robert Morris was born in England, and came to America when he was
thirteen years old, (Sparks’ life of Governeur Morris.)

[3] During the Confederation the different States had the unquestioned
right to coin money, but only according to the standard of fineness,
weight, and value, prescribed by the central government.

[4] The following, from the Morris Papers, serve to illustrate this
subject:

“1.—ROBT. MORRIS TO RICHARD YATES.

                                                 “PHILAD’A, Jan. 23, 1782.

“SIR,

“At the request of a very honest Man who seems much distressed for
the welfare of his wife, now in London, I beg to trouble you with the
enclosed Letter, praying that you will forward it, and if in consequence
thereof Mrs. Dudley should come to New York, I beg of you to procure
Liberty for her to come to her Husband at this place. The money for her
Passage and reasonable expenses in New York, which must be reasonable
as possible, she may draw upon her Husband, Mr. Benjamin Dudley, and I
engage that the Draft shall be paid. I shall thank you for your attention
to this poor Lady when she arrives, and remain Sir,

                  “your most obedient and humble servant

                                                           ROBERT MORRIS.”

“2.—ROBT. MORRIS TO THE COMMISSARY GENERAL OF PRISONERS.

                                                 “PHILAD’A, Jan. 23, 1782.

“SIR,

“I send herewith an open letter for Mr. Richard Yates containing one for
Mrs. Dudley in London, from her Husband now here. I wish these may be
safely delivered to Mr. Yates, and therefore pray you to send them into
New York, by some person that will not only promise, but perform the
delivery of them. I am Sir,

                  “your most obedient and humble servant

                                                           ROBERT MORRIS.”

[5] This letter will illustrate this subject:

ROBERT MORRIS TO THE REV. WILLIAM GORDON, D. D.

[From the Morris Papers.]

                                                “PHILAD’A 20th July, 1782.

“SIR,

“In consequence of your Letter of the nineteenth of June, I sent for
Mr. Dudley, told him the information you had so kindly given to me,
and assured him of my desire to make him easy and happy. The business
in which he is intended to be employed, is like many other important
matters, retarded by the tediousness of the States in supplying the
Continental Treasury.

“The Hon’ble Secretary at War has commenced a correspondence with General
Gates at my request, which I think, will produce what he wishes. Be
assured that I take particular pleasure in promoting the interest and
happiness of worthy men, and that I am with great esteem Sir,

                  your most obedient and humble Servant,

                                                           ROBERT MORRIS.”

[6] This letter will illustrate this matter:

ROBERT MORRIS TO BENJAMIN DUDLEY.

[From the Morris Papers.]

                                        OFFICE OF FINANCE, 29 Novr., 1782.

“SIR,

“You will herewith receive the Form for making a particular kind of
Paper—You are to proceed to the Paper Mill of Mr. Mark Wilcox, in Ash
Town Chester County, who has the Stuff prepared, and there to superintend
the making of sundry reams of Paper upon this Form—in doing of which
you are to be particularly careful not to leave it in the power of any
person or persons to make any paper upon this Form without your immediate
Inspection.

“You are to attend the Workmen constantly whilst they are at work, and
when you retire from the Mill upon any occasion, you are to take the Form
with you. You are to count the Paper as it is made sheet by sheet and
when you have finished the whole, you are to bring it to me together with
the Form. I am Sir,

                       “Your most obedient servant,

                                                          “ROBERT MORRIS.”

[7] The building is still standing (March, 1888) Nos. 37 and 39 North
Seventh street, and is occupied for various purposes.

[8] For the various duties of the Mint there are over three hundred
persons employed as clerks, workmen, etc.—say about two-thirds men and
one-third women—the number depending, of course, upon the amount of work
to be done.

[9] Adam Eckfeldt’s portrait, by Samuel Du Bois, hangs in the Cabinet. A
short sketch of him will be found in the list of Coiners.

[10] The exchange at the present time (1885) is made at the Sub-Treasury
in the Custom House.

[11] Horace says that Alexander the Great ordained that no one should
take his portrait on _gems_ but Pyrgoteles; no one should paint
him but Apelles; and no one should stamp his head on _coins_ but
Lysippus.—_American Bibliopolist._

[12] “In box, three pictures (miniatures), _two half joes_, two small
pieces of gold.” Dec. 26, 1780.—Martha Washington. These were sent to be
used in the manufacture of the miniature cases for the above pictures.
This letter is in the possession of K. Coulton Davis, Ph. G., of this
city.

[13] This issue being made at Sommer Islands, gave the name of “Sommer
money.”

[14] The old story of the weighing of John Hall’s daughter on her
marriage-day is recalled in seeing these coins. Her dowry was her
weight in “pine-tree” shillings; and the suggestion is allowable that
these specimens formed a part of the portion of the blushing bride two
centuries ago.

[15] This is the coin which caused such excitement and so much feeling in
Ireland, and which Dean Swift attacked from the pulpit.

[16] From Chapman’s Collection Catalogue, May 14-15, pp. 24-25.

[17] From the proceedings of the American Philosophical Society, reported
by Wm. E. Du Bois, in October, 1845.

[18] Considered unique, one recently sold for $640.00 at a public sale in
New York.

[19] After the resignation of ex-Governor Pollock the title of Director
was changed to Superintendent. The Director of all the Mints is now
located at Washington.

[20] Dr. Linderman’s widow and only son, Henry R. Linderman (named for
him), a prominent lawyer of Stroudsburg, Penna., are the only survivors
of his family.

[21] The Phototype of Washington’s Profile likeness in the bound edition
of this book, is from this Medal, known as the Houdon Medal.

[22] Mr. Barber has lately completed a large and very fine medallic
likeness of President Cleveland.

[23] Kilogram of gold valued at $634.60.

[24] Kilogram of silver valued at $41.56.

[25] Includes $11,464.27 expended from appropriation for renewal of
steam-power plant at Philadelphia.

[26] The statement of the amounts in National Banks is of date August 1.

[27] Includes $24,044,000 Clearing-house gold certificates.

[28] Includes $8,770,000 held for the redemption of certificates of
deposit for legal-tender notes under Act June 8, 1872.

[29] The Carat is sub-divided into thirty-two parts.

[30] The coins struck at the parent mint in Philadelphia bear no mint
mark.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE REAL ESTATE TRUST COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA

1340 Chestnut Street.

[Illustration]

Capital,—$500,000.

OFFICERS:

  FRANK K. HIPPLE, President.
  WILLIAM R. PHILLER, Secretary.
  WILLIAM F. NORTH, Treasurer.
  THOMAS B. PROSSER, Real Estate Officer.

DIRECTORS:

  FRANK K. HIPPLE,
  HENRY C. GIBSON,
  LEMUEL COFFIN,
  BEAUVEAU BORIE,
  WILLIAM M. SINGERLY,
  JOHN WANAMAKER,
  GEORGE PHILLER,
  EDWARD T. STEEL,
  CHARLES W. HENRY,
  JOHN F. BETZ,
  THOMAS DOLAN,
  R. DALE BENSON.

GEORGE JUNKIN, Solicitor.

This Company transacts a general Real Estate business, acting as agent or
attorney for buying, holding, leasing and selling property in the City
of Philadelphia and its vicinity. Negotiates Mortgages and places Ground
Rents.

Gives especial attention to the Renting of Properties and the Collection
of Rents, to the payment of Taxes and Water Rents, and to the making
of needful repairs on such properties; in all respects taking the same
charge and management of, and giving the same attention to, Real Estate
as the owner could do.

Collects Ground Rents, Interest on Mortgages, Dividends and Income of all
kinds whatsoever.

Receives Deposits of Money, payable by Check on demand, and allows
Interest thereon. Issues Negotiable Certificates of Special Deposits
bearing Interest.

Acts as Trustee, Guardian, Executor, Administrator, Assignee, Receiver,
Committee, Attorney, etc.

Receives and executes Trusts of every description, under the appointment
of Courts, Corporations and Individuals.

Becomes surety for the faithful performance of any Trust or Office; acts
as Transfer Agent or Registrar of Stocks and Bonds of Corporations or
Municipalities.

All Trust Funds and Investments are kept separate and apart from those of
the Company.

Issues Policies of Title Insurance to Real Estate and Real Estate
Securities, in Philadelphia and adjoining counties, thereby affording
absolute security to Purchasers and their Heirs, at a nominal cost.

Also issues Policies of Special Insurance against Decedents’ Debts,
Mechanics’ Liens, Judgments, Old Ground Rents, etc.

Receives for safe-keeping Securities, Plate, Jewelry, Deeds, Mortgages,
and other Valuables, at reasonable rates.

Rents Safe Deposit Boxes in the Company’s Burglar-proof Vaults, affording
security against loss by Robbery, Fire or Accident. These Boxes are
rented according to size and location, at from Five to Fifty Dollars per
annum.

Agents for the sale of the reliable Six Per Cent. Mortgages and
Debentures of “The New England Loan and Trust Co. of Des Moines, Iowa;”
and of “The New England Trust Co. of Kansas City, Missouri;” both
Principal and Interest guaranteed, and Interest payable semi-annually, by
coupon, in either New York or Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *

WILLIAM GROVES. ALEXANDER WILSON. WILLIAM GROVES, JR.

GROVES, WILSON & GROVES,

IMPORTERS, MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS OF CABINET FURNITURE, UPHOLSTERY
AND BEDDING, Furniture and Decorations, LACE CURTAINS AND DRAPERIES.

☞ _VERANDA AND WINDOW AWNINGS A SPECIALTY._

=Nos. 1022-24 Market Street,=

PHILADELPHIA, PA.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE

Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company

OF PHILADELPHIA.

  Assets,                $12,750,000.00
  Surplus to Members,      2,500,000.00

=A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY= conducted solely in the interest of members,
and with the object of furnishing the =Best= Life Insurance at the
=Least= cost.

=40 YEARS’ SUCCESSFUL BUSINESS.=

All approved forms of Life and Endowment Policies issued, which become
=INCONTESTABLE= after two years, and are absolutely =NON-FORFEITABLE= for
“reserve” value.

Members who discontinue their payments, have the option of an =Extension=
of the original sum insured or a =Paid-up= policy.

HOME OFFICE—No. 921 CHESTNUT ST., PHILADELPHIA.

  EDWARD M. NEEDLES, President.
  HORATIO S. STEPHENS, Vice-Pres’t.
  HENRY C. BROWN, Sec’y and Treas.
  JESSE J. BARKER, Actuary.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPRINGFIELD GAS MACHINE

Improved under twenty years’ manufacture and experience—maintains the
lead.

=FOR COUNTRY RESIDENCES= it has proved to be a necessity and a luxury.

=FOR HOTELS= and other buildings, in connection with our Mixing
Regulator, it produces gas of uniform quality, free from smoke, used
through plain open burners.

=FOR MECHANICAL ARTS= it furnishes gas for heating purposes, at 40 to 50
cents per thousand feet.

Best quality GASOLINE, for Gas Machines, constantly on hand. Send for
quotations.

Among the Hotels lighted by the Springfield Gas Machine, with Mixing
Regulator attached, would mention the following: Glen Summit Hotel, Glen
Summit, Pa; Devon Inn, Devon, Pa.; Engleside, Beach Haven, N. J.; Avon
Inn, Key East, N. J.; Luray Inn, Luray, Va.

For further particulars, address,

                             GEORGE W. HULME,
                12 North Seventh Street, Philadelphia, Pa.

                Cooking Stoves for use with Gas Machines.
                           SEND FOR CATALOGUE.

       *       *       *       *       *

FURNITURE AND DECORATIONS

  _CURTAINS AND UPHOLSTERY,_
  _FINE CABINET WORK,_
  _INTERIOR WOOD WORK._

ORIGINAL DRAWINGS AND ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.

TRYMBY, HUNT & CO.

=IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS,=

NOS. 1217 TO 1221 MARKET STREET, PHILADELPHIA.

       *       *       *       *       *

TENTH EDITION OF EVANS’ ILLUSTRATED HISTORY OF THE U. S. MINT

EXTRACTS FROM PRESS NOTICES.

_DAILY HERALD._

A very interesting History of the United States Mint is published by
the author, George G. Evans, of this city. The introduction gives an
account of the money of the past and the present, showing what formed
the circulatory medium in ancient times and in all countries. This is
followed by a history of coinage in this country, with biographical
sketches of the past and present officers of our Mint. The whole process
of melting, assaying, refining and coining gold and silver is very
lucidly explained; it is also fully illustrated with engravings as a
further explanation of the text. There are a large number of phototypes
of ancient and modern coins, Continental money, etc., etc., the whole
forming a very readable book, and one which fills a gap in our country’s
history.

_PHILADELPHIA TIMES._

It is the only complete and authentic History of the Mint and Coinage
Manual that is to be had, and is a valuable contribution to our national
as well as our local history. It embraces everything that one could
expect to find in such a volume, and a good deal which agreeably
surprises the reader.

_EVENING TELEGRAPH._

Mr. Evans’ book gives a complete history of American coinage, describing
the obverse and reverse of each piece struck at the Mint since its
establishment in 1792. The work is finely gotten up in every respect.

Copies of the above sent post-paid on receipt of price. _A Handsome Gift_
will accompany each book.

  Paper Covered Edition, price        $ .50
  Cloth, Gold Side Stamp               1.00
  Half Morocco, Marbled Edge           2.00

N. B.—Any book published, the retail price of which is 50 cents or
more, will be promptly sent post-paid, with a gift, on receipt of the
advertised price.

                   Address, =GEO. G. EVANS, Publisher=,
                _1227 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa._

       *       *       *       *       *

Established 1860.

                        MASON & CO., COIN DEALERS,
                    175 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

Just out, “Coin Price Book,” showing our buying and selling prices for
all Coins. Mailed for 25 cents. Send Stamp for information.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: DAVID F. CONOVER. B. FRANK WILLIAMS.

WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR ROGERS & BROS.’ FLAT _and_ HOLLOW WARE

WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR T. A. WILLSON & CO.’S OPTICAL GOODS]

DAVID F. CONOVER & CO.

(Successors to WM. B. WARNE & CO.)

Manufacturers and Wholesale Dealers in WATCHES _AND_ JEWELRY, American
Watch Wholesale Salesroom:

Corner Chestnut and Seventh Streets, (FIRST FLOOR,) PHILADELPHIA.

       *       *       *       *       *

MRS. M. C. CASSIDY,

AGENT DEALER IN

Human Hair,

AND EVERY ARTICLE BELONGING TO THE TRADE,

No. 9 South Eighth Street, PHILADELPHIA.

       *       *       *       *       *

E. O. THOMPSON,

Merchant Tailor AND IMPORTER OF ENGLISH CLOTHING,

1338 Chestnut Street (Opposite the U. S. MINT,)

PHILADELPHIA.

_Thirty-three years experience in_

“Finest Merchant Tailoring,”

_has won for us a “national reputation,” and our customers extend from
Maine to California_.

_In addition to the finest Merchant Tailoring, we are now introducing an
entirely new idea, viz._:

“London Ready-Made Clothing,”

_which every visitor to the Mint is invited to call at our store and
examine_.

_=Our Claim is=: They are =equal= in =style=, =fit=, =make= and
=appearance= to the finest “made to order” garments, and at half the cost
of the same._

_Should you not be ready to purchase now, we shall be pleased to take
your measure for reference, and will send you samples and prices on
request =FREE OF CHARGE=._

_Our “MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT” offers special advantages for obtaining our
clothing without calling at our store, and our Self-Measuring System
secures a fit._

_Write for particulars and samples._

_Address all Mail Orders_, E. O. THOMPSON, P. O. Box 418, PHILADELPHIA.

=OUR STORES:=

No. 1338 Chestnut Street, (Opposite the Mint,)

No. 908 Walnut Street, PHILADELPHIA.

No. 245 Broadway, NEW YORK.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ILLUSTRATED HISTORY OF THE
UNITED STATES MINT ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.